
page semi-protect
arab
from wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
jump to navigationjump to search
thi articl is about the gener languag (macrolanguag). for specif varieti of arab and other us, see arab (disambigu).
arab
اَلْعَرَبِيَّةُ‎
al-ʿarabiyyah
arab albayancalligraphi.svg
al-ʿarabiyyah in written arab (naskh script)
pronunci	/ˈʕarabiː/, /alʕaraˈbijːa/
nativ to	countri of the arab leagu, minor in neighbor countri and some part of asia, africa, europ
ethnic	arab, arab-berber, afro-arab, among other
nativ speaker	310 million, all varieti (2011–2016)[1]
270 million l2 speaker of standard (modern) arab[1]
languag famili	
afro-asiat
semit
west semit
central semit
north arabian
arab
earli form	
proto-arab
old arab
old hijazi
classic arab
standard form	
modern standard arab
dialect	
western (maghrebi)
northern (egyptian, mesopotamian, levantin)
southern (peninsular gulf, hejazi, najdi and yemeni)
write system	•arab alphabet
•arab braill
•arabizi
sign form	sign arab (differ nation form)
offici statu
offici languag in	
26 state
intern organ
recognis minor
languag in	
list
regul by	
list
languag code
iso 639-1	ar
iso 639-2	ara
iso 639-3	ara – inclus code
individu code:
arq – algerian arab
aao – algerian saharan arab
xaa – andalusian arab
bbz – babalia creol arab
abv – baharna arab
shu – chadian arab
aci – cypriot arab
adf – dhofari arab
avl – eastern egyptian bedawi arab
arz – egyptian arab
afb – gulf arab
ayh – hadrami arab
acw – hijazi arab
ayl – libyan arab
acm – mesopotamian arab
ari – moroccan arab
ar – najdi arab
apc – north levantin arab
ayp – north mesopotamian arab
acx – omani arab
aec – saidi arab
ayn – sanaani arab
ssh – shihhi arab
sqr – siculo arab
ajp – south levantin arab
arb – standard arab
apd – sudanes arab
pga – sudanes creol arab
acq – taizzi-adeni arab
abh – tajiki arab
glottolog	arab1395
linguaspher	12-aac
arab dispers.svg
dispers of nativ arab speaker as the major (dark green) or minor (light green) popul
arab speak world.svg
us of arab as the nation languag (green), as an offici languag (dark blue) and as a region/minor languag (light blue)
thi articl contain ipa phonet symbol. without proper render support, you mai see question mark, box, or other symbol instead of unicod charact. for an introductori guid on ipa symbol, see help:ipa.
arab (اَلْعَرَبِيَّةُ, al-ʿarabiyyah [al ʕaraˈbijːa] (about thi soundlisten) or عَرَبِيّ‎, ʿarabīi [ˈʕarabiː] (about thi soundlisten) or [ʕaraˈbij]) is a semit languag that first emerg in the 1st to 4th centuri ce.[3] it is now the lingua franca of the arab world.[4] it is name after the arab, a term initi us to describ peopl live in the arabian peninsula bound by eastern egypt in the west, mesopotamia in the east, and the anti-lebanon mountain and northern syria in the north, as perceiv by ancient greek geograph[5] the iso assign languag code to thirti varieti of arab, includ it standard form, modern standard arab,[6] also refer to as literari arab, which is modern classic arab. thi distinct exist primarili among western linguist; arab speaker themselv gener do not distinguish between modern standard arab and classic arab, but rather refer to both as al-ʿarabiyyatu l-fuṣḥā (اَلعَرَبِيَّةُ ٱلْفُصْحَىٰ[7] "the eloqu arab") or simpli al-fuṣḥā (اَلْفُصْحَىٰ). modern standard arab is an offici languag of 26 state and 1 disput territori, the third most after english and french.[8]

arab is wide taught in school and univers and is us to vari degre in workplac, govern and the media. arab, in it standard form, is the offici languag of 26 state, as well as the liturg languag of the religion of islam, sinc the quran and hadith were written in arab.

dure the middl ag, arab wa a major vehicl of cultur in europ, especi in scienc, mathemat and philosophi. as a result, mani european languag have also borrow mani word from it. arab influenc, mainli in vocabulari, is seen in european languag—mainli spanish and to a lesser extent portugues, catalan, and sicilian—ow to both the proxim of christian european and muslim arab civil and the long-last arab cultur and languag presenc mainli in southern iberia dure the al-andalu era. the maltes languag is a semit languag develop from a dialect of arab and written in the latin alphabet.[9] the balkan languag, includ greek and bulgarian, have also acquir a signific number of arab word through contact with ottoman turkish.

arab ha influenc mani other languag around the globe throughout it histori. some of the most influenc languag ar persian, turkish, hindustani (hindi and urdu),[10] kashmiri, kurdish, bosnian, kazakh, bengali, malai (indonesian and malaysian), maldivian, pashto, punjabi, albanian, armenian, azerbaijani, sicilian, spanish, greek, bulgarian, tagalog, sindhi, odia[11] and hausa and some languag in part of africa. convers, arab ha borrow word from other languag, includ hebrew, greek, arama, and persian in mediev time and languag such as english and french in modern time.

arab is the liturg languag of 1.8 billion muslim, and arab[12] is on of six offici languag of the unit nation.[13][14][15][16] all varieti of arab combin ar spoken by perhap as mani as 422 million speaker (nativ and non-nativ) in the arab world,[17] make it the fifth most spoken languag in the world. arab is written with the arab alphabet, which is an abjad script and is written from right to left, although the spoken varieti ar sometim written in ascii latin from left to right with no standard orthographi.


content
1	classif
2	histori
2.1	old arab
2.2	old hejazi and classic arab
2.3	neo-arab
2.4	nahda
3	classic, modern standard and spoken arab
4	languag and dialect
5	influenc of arab on other languag
6	influenc of other languag on arab
7	arab alphabet and nation
7.1	lebanon
7.2	egypt
8	the languag of the quran and it influenc on poetri
8.1	quran's figur devic
8.2	structur
8.3	cultur and the quran
8.4	arab and islam
9	dialect and descend
9.1	exampl
9.2	koiné
9.3	dialect group
10	phonolog
10.1	histori
10.2	literari arab
10.2.1	vowel
10.2.2	conson
10.2.3	syllabl structur
10.2.4	stress
10.2.5	level of pronunci
10.2.5.1	full pronunci with pausa
10.2.5.2	formal short pronunci
10.2.5.3	inform short pronunci
10.3	colloqui varieti
10.3.1	vowel
10.3.2	conson
11	grammar
11.1	literari arab
11.1.1	noun and adject
11.1.2	verb
11.1.3	deriv
11.2	colloqui varieti
12	write system
12.1	calligraphi
12.2	roman
12.3	numer
13	languag-standard regul
14	as a foreign languag
15	statu in the arab world vs. other languag
16	see also
17	refer
17.1	citat
17.2	sourc
18	extern link
classif
further inform: classif of arab languag
arab is usual, but not univers, classifi as a central semit languag. it is relat to languag in other subgroup of the semit languag group (northwest semit, south semit, east semit, west semit), such as arama, syriac, hebrew, ugarit, phoenician, canaanit, amorit, ammonit, eblait, epigraph ancient north arabian, epigraph ancient south arabian, ethiop, modern south arabian, and numer other dead and modern languag. linguist still differ as to the best classif of semit languag sub-group.[3] the semit languag chang a great deal between proto-semit and the emerg of the central semit languag, particularli in grammar. innov of the central semit languag—all maintain in arab—includ:

the convers of the suffix-conjug stativ format (jala-) into a past tens.
the convers of the prefix-conjug preterit-tens format (yajli-) into a present tens.
the elimin of other prefix-conjug mood/aspect form (e.g., a present tens form by doubl the middl root, a perfect form by infix a /t/ after the first root conson, probabl a jussiv form by a stress shift) in favor of new mood form by end attach to the prefix-conjug form (e.g., -u for indic, -a for subjunct, no end for jussiv, -an or -anna for energet).
the develop of an intern passiv.
there ar sever featur which classic arab, the modern arab varieti, as well as the safait and hismaic inscript share which ar unattest in ani other central semit languag varieti, includ the dadanit and taymanit languag of the northern hejaz. these featur ar evid of common descent from a hypothet ancestor, proto-arab. the follow featur can be reconstruct with confid for proto-arab:[18]

neg particl m * /mā/; lʾn */lā-ʾan/ to classic arab lan
mafʿūl g-passiv participl
preposit and adverb f, ʿn, ʿnd, ḥt, ʿkdy
a subjunct in -a
t-demonstr
level of the -at allomorph of the feminin end
ʾn complement and subordin
the us of f- to introduc modal claus
independ object pronoun in (ʾ)y
vestig of nunat
histori
old arab
main articl: old arab

safait inscript
arabia boast a wide varieti of semit languag in antiqu. in the southwest, variou central semit languag both belong to and outsid of the ancient south arabian famili (e.g. southern thamud) were spoken. it is also believ that the ancestor of the modern south arabian languag (non-central semit languag) were also spoken in southern arabia at thi time. to the north, in the oas of northern hejaz, dadanit and taymanit held some prestig as inscript languag. in najd and part of western arabia, a languag known to scholar as thamud c is attest. in eastern arabia, inscript in a script deriv from asa attest to a languag known as hasait. final, on the northwestern frontier of arabia, variou languag known to scholar as thamud b, thamud d, safait, and hismaic ar attest. the last two share import isogloss with later form of arab, lead scholar to theoriz that safait and hismaic ar in fact earli form of arab and that thei should be consid old arab.[19]

linguist gener believ that "old arab" (a collect of relat dialect that constitut the precursor of arab) first emerg around the 1st centuri ce. previous, the earliest attest of old arab wa thought to be a singl 1st centuri ce inscript in sabaic script at qaryat al-faw, in southern present-dai saudi arabia. howev, thi inscript doe not particip in sever of the kei innov of the arab languag group, such as the convers of semit mimat to nunat in the singular. it is best reassess as a separ languag on the central semit dialect continuum.[20]

it wa also thought that old arab coexist alongsid—and then gradual displac--epigraph ancient north arabian (ana), which wa theoriz to have been the region tongu for mani centuri. ana, despit it name, wa consid a veri distinct languag, and mutual unintellig, from "arab". scholar name it variant dialect after the town where the inscript were discov (dadanit, taymanit, hismaic, safait).[3] howev, most argument for a singl ana languag or languag famili were base on the shape of the definit articl, a prefix h-. it ha been argu that the h- is an archaism and not a share innov, and thu unsuit for languag classif, render the hypothesi of an ana languag famili unten.[21] safait and hismaic, previous consid ana, should be consid old arab due to the fact that thei particip in the innov common to all form of arab.[19]


the namara inscript, a sampl of nabataean script, consid a direct precursor of arab script.[22][23]
the earliest attest of continu arab text in an ancestor of the modern arab script ar three line of poetri by a man name garm(')allāh found in en avdat, israel, and date to around 125 ce.[24] thi is follow by the namara inscript, an epitaph of the lakhmid king mar 'al-qai bar 'amro, date to 328 ce, found at namaraa, syria. from the 4th to the 6th centuri, the nabataean script evolv into the arab script recogniz from the earli islam era.[25] there ar inscript in an undot, 17-letter arab script date to the 6th centuri ce, found at four locat in syria (zabad, jabal 'usai, harran, umm al-jimaal). the oldest surviv papyru in arab date to 643 ce, and it us dot to produc the modern 28-letter arab alphabet. the languag of that papyru and of the qur'an ar refer to by linguist as "quran arab", as distinct from it codif soon thereaft into "classic arab".[3]

old hejazi and classic arab
main articl: old hijazi and classic arab

arab from the quran in the old hijazi dialect (hijazi script, 7th centuri ad)
in late pre-islam time, a transdialect and transcommun varieti of arab emerg in the hejaz which continu live it parallel life after literari arab had been institution standard in the 2nd and 3rd centuri of the hijra, most strongli in judeo-christian text, keep aliv ancient featur elimin from the "learn" tradit (classic arab).[26] thi varieti and both it classic and "lai" iter have been term middl arab in the past, but thei ar thought to continu an old higazi regist. it is clear that the orthographi of the qur'an wa not develop for the standard form of classic arab; rather, it show the attempt on the part of writer to record an archaic form of old higazi.


the qur'an ha serv and continu to serv as a fundament refer for arab. (maghrebi kufic script, blue qur'an, 9th-10th centuri)
in the late 6th centuri ad, a rel uniform intertrib "poetic koin" distinct from the spoken vernacular develop base on the bedouin dialect of najd, probabl in connect with the court of al-ḥīra. dure the first islam centuri, the major of arab poet and arab-write person spoke arab as their mother tongu. their text, although mainli preserv in far later manuscript, contain trace of non-standard classic arab element in morpholog and syntax.

follow the earli muslim conquest, arab gain vocabulari from middl persian and turkish.[22] in the earli abbasid period, mani classic greek term enter arab through translat carri out at baghdad's hous of wisdom.[22]

the standard of classic arab reach complet around the end of the 8th centuri. the first comprehens descript of the ʿarabiyya "arab", sībawayhi's al-kitāb, is base first of all upon a corpu of poetic text, in addit to qur'an usag and bedouin inform whom he consid to be reliabl speaker of the ʿarabiyya.[27] by the 8th centuri, knowledg of classic arab had becom an essenti prerequisit for rise into the higher class throughout the islam world.

neo-arab
charl ferguson's koin theori (ferguson 1959) claim that the modern arab dialect collect descend from a singl militari koin that sprang up dure the islam conquest; thi view ha been challeng in recent time. ahmad al-jallad propos that there were at least two consider distinct type of arab on the ev of the conquest: northern and central (al-jallad 2009). the modern dialect emerg from a new contact situat produc follow the conquest. instead of the emerg of a singl or multipl koin, the dialect contain sever sedimentari layer of borrow and areal featur, which thei absorb at differ point in their linguist histori.[27] accord to veersteegh and bickerton, colloqui arab dialect aros from pidgin arab form from contact between arab and conquer peopl. pidgin and subsequ creoliz among arab and arab peopl could explain rel morpholog and phonolog simplic of vernacular arab compar to classic and msa.[28][29]

in around the 11th and 12th centuri in al-andalu, the zajal and muwashah poetri form develop in the dialect arab of cordoba and the maghreb.[30]

nahda

taha hussein and gamal abdel nasser were both staunch defend of standard arab.[31][32]
in the wake of the industri revolut and european hegemoni and coloni, pioneer arab press, such as the amiri press establish by muhammad ali (1819), dramat chang the diffus and consumpt of arab literatur and public.[33]

the nahda cultur renaiss saw the creation of a number of arab academi model after the académi français that aim to develop the arab lexicon to suit these transform,[34] first in damascu (1919), then in cairo (1932), baghdad (1948), rabat (1960), amman (1977), khartum [ar] (1993), and tuni (1993).[35] in 1997, a bureau of arab standard wa ad to the educ, cultur, and scientif organ of the arab leagu.[35] these academi and organ have work toward the arab of the scienc, creat term in arab to describ new concept, toward the standard of these new term throughout the arab-speak world, and toward the develop of arab as a world languag.[35] thi gave rise to what western scholar call modern standard arab.

from the 1950s, arab becam a postcoloni nationalist polici in countri such as tunisia, algeria, morocco,[36] and sudan.[37]

file:arab swadesh list 1-100.webm
arab swadesh list (1-100).
classic, modern standard and spoken arab
further inform: classic arab, modern standard arab, and varieti of arab
see also: list of arab dictionari

flag of the arab leagu, us in some case for the arab languag

flag us in some case for the arab languag (flag of the kingdom of hejaz 1916–1925).the flag contain the four pan-arab color: black, white, green and red.
arab usual refer to standard arab, which western linguist divid into classic arab and modern standard arab.[38] it could also refer to ani of a varieti of region vernacular arab dialect, which ar not necessarili mutual intellig.

classic arab is the languag found in the quran, us from the period of pre-islam arabia to that of the abbasid caliph. classic arab is prescript, accord to the syntact and grammat norm laid down by classic grammarian (such as sibawayh) and the vocabulari defin in classic dictionari (such as the lisān al-ʻarab).

modern standard arab larg follow the grammat standard of classic arab and us much of the same vocabulari. howev, it ha discard some grammat construct and vocabulari that no longer have ani counterpart in the spoken varieti and ha adopt certain new construct and vocabulari from the spoken varieti. much of the new vocabulari is us to denot concept that have arisen in the industri and post-industri era, especi in modern time. due to it ground in classic arab, modern standard arab is remov over a millennium from everydai speech, which is constru as a multitud of dialect of thi languag. these dialect and modern standard arab ar describ by some scholar as not mutual comprehens. the former ar usual acquir in famili, while the latter is taught in formal educ set. howev, there have been studi report some degre of comprehens of stori told in the standard varieti among preschool-ag children.[39] the relat between modern standard arab and these dialect is sometim compar to that of classic latin and vulgar latin vernacular (which becam romanc languag) in mediev and earli modern europ.[40] thi view though doe not take into account the widespread us of modern standard arab as a medium of audiovisu commun in todai's mass media—a function latin ha never perform.

msa is the varieti us in most current, print arab public, spoken by some of the arab media across north africa and the middl east, and understood by most educ arab speaker. "literari arab" and "standard arab" (فُصْحَى‎ fuṣḥá) ar less strictli defin term that mai refer to modern standard arab or classic arab.

some of the differ between classic arab (ca) and modern standard arab (msa) ar as follow:

certain grammat construct of ca that have no counterpart in ani modern vernacular dialect (e.g., the energet mood) ar almost never us in modern standard arab.
case distinct ar veri rare in arab vernacular. as a result, msa is gener compos without case distinct in mind, and the proper case ar ad after the fact, when necessari. becaus most case end ar note us final short vowel, which ar normal left unwritten in the arab script, it is unnecessari to determin the proper case of most word. the practic result of thi is that msa, like english and standard chines, is written in a strongli determin word order and altern order that were us in ca for emphasi ar rare. in addit, becaus of the lack of case mark in the spoken varieti, most speaker cannot consist us the correct end in extemporan speech. as a result, spoken msa tend to drop or regular the end except when read from a prepar text.
the numer system in ca is complex and heavili ti in with the case system. thi system is never us in msa, even in the most formal of circumst; instead, a significantli simplifi system is us, approxim the system of the conserv spoken varieti.
msa us much classic vocabulari (e.g., dhahaba 'to go') that is not present in the spoken varieti, but delet classic word that sound obsolet in msa. in addit, msa ha borrow or coin mani term for concept that did not exist in quran time, and msa continu to evolv.[41] some word have been borrow from other languag—notic that transliter mainli indic spell and not real pronunci (e.g., فِلْم‎ film 'film' or ديمقراطية‎ dīmuqrāṭiyyah 'democraci').

howev, the current prefer is to avoid direct borrow, prefer to either us loan translat (e.g., فرع‎ farʻ 'branch', also us for the branch of a compani or organ; جناح‎ janāḥ 'wing', is also us for the wing of an airplan, build, air forc, etc.), or to coin new word us form within exist root (استماتة‎ istimātah 'apoptosi', us the root موت‎ m/w/t 'death' put into the xth form, or جامعة‎ jāmiʻah 'univers', base on جمع‎ jamaʻa 'to gather, unit'; جمهورية‎ jumhūriyyah 'republ', base on جمهور‎ jumhūr 'multitud'). an earlier tendenc wa to redefin an older word although thi ha fallen into disus (e.g., هاتف‎ hātif 'telephon' < 'invis caller (in sufism)'; جريدة‎ jarīdah 'newspap' < 'palm-leaf stalk').

colloqui or dialect arab refer to the mani nation or region varieti which constitut the everydai spoken languag and evolv from classic arab. colloqui arab ha mani region variant; geograph distant varieti usual differ enough to be mutual unintellig, and some linguist consid them distinct languag.[42] howev, research indic a high degre of mutual intellig between close relat arab variant for nativ speaker listen to word, sentenc, and text; and between more distantli relat dialect in interact situat.[43]

the varieti ar typic unwritten. thei ar often us in inform spoken media, such as soap opera and talk show,[44] as well as occasion in certain form of written media such as poetri and print advertis.

the onli varieti of modern arab to have acquir offici languag statu is maltes, which is spoken in (predominantli cathol) malta and written with the latin script. it is descend from classic arab through siculo-arab, but is not mutual intellig with ani other varieti of arab. most linguist list it as a separ languag rather than as a dialect of arab.

even dure muhammad's lifetim, there were dialect of spoken arab. muhammad spoke in the dialect of mecca, in the western arabian peninsula, and it wa in thi dialect that the quran wa written down. howev, the dialect of the eastern arabian peninsula were consid the most prestigi at the time, so the languag of the quran wa ultim convert to follow the eastern phonolog. it is thi phonolog that underli the modern pronunci of classic arab. the phonolog differ between these two dialect account for some of the complex of arab write, most notabl the write of the glottal stop or hamzah (which wa preserv in the eastern dialect but lost in western speech) and the us of alif maqṣūrah (repres a sound preserv in the western dialect but merg with ā in eastern speech).[citat need]

languag and dialect
the sociolinguist situat of arab in modern time provid a prime exampl of the linguist phenomenon of diglossia, which is the normal us of two separ varieti of the same languag, usual in differ social situat. tawle is the process of give a new shade of mean to an old classic word. for exampl, al-hatif lexicograph, mean the on whose sound is heard but whose person remain unseen. now the term al-hatif is us for a telephon. therefor, the process of tawle can express the need of modern civil in a manner that would appear to be origin arab.[45] in the case of arab, educ arab of ani nation can be assum to speak both their school-taught standard arab as well as their nativ, mutual unintellig "dialect";[46][47][48][49][50] these dialect linguist constitut separ languag which mai have dialect of their own.[51] when educ arab of differ dialect engag in convers (for exampl, a moroccan speak with a lebanes), mani speaker code-switch back and forth between the dialect and standard varieti of the languag, sometim even within the same sentenc. arab speaker often improv their familiar with other dialect via music or film.

the issu of whether arab is on languag or mani languag is polit charg, in the same wai it is for the varieti of chines, hindi and urdu, serbian and croatian, scot and english, etc. in contrast to speaker of hindi and urdu who claim thei cannot understand each other even when thei can, speaker of the varieti of arab will claim thei can all understand each other even when thei cannot.[52] the issu of diglossia between spoken and written languag is a signific complic factor: a singl written form, significantli differ from ani of the spoken varieti learn nativ, unit a number of sometim diverg spoken form. for polit reason, arab mostli assert that thei all speak a singl languag, despit signific issu of mutual incomprehens among differ spoken version.[53]

from a linguist standpoint, it is often said that the variou spoken varieti of arab differ among each other collect about as much as the romanc languag.[54] thi is an apt comparison in a number of wai. the period of diverg from a singl spoken form is similar—perhap 1500 year for arab, 2000 year for the romanc languag. also, while it is comprehens to peopl from the maghreb, a linguist innov varieti such as moroccan arab is essenti incomprehens to arab from the mashriq, much as french is incomprehens to spanish or italian speaker but rel easili learn by them. thi suggest that the spoken varieti mai linguist be consid separ languag.

influenc of arab on other languag
see also: list of arab loanword in english
the influenc of arab ha been most import in islam countri, becaus it is the languag of the islam sacr book, the quran. arab is also an import sourc of vocabulari for languag such as amhar, azerbaijani, baluchi, bengali, berber, bosnian, chaldean, chechen, chittagonian, croatian, dagestani, english, german, gujarati, hausa, hindi, kazakh, kurdish, kutchi, kyrgyz, malai (malaysian and indonesian), pashto, persian, punjabi, rohingya, romanc languag (french, catalan, italian, portugues, sicilian, spanish, etc.) saraiki, sindhi, somali, sylheti, swahili, tagalog, tigrinya, turkish, turkmen, urdu, uyghur, uzbek, visayan and wolof, as well as other languag in countri where these languag ar spoken.[55]

the educ minist of franc jean-michel blanquer ha emphas the learn and usag of arab in french school.[56][57]

in addit, english ha mani arab loanword, some directli, but most via other mediterranean languag. exampl of such word includ admir, adob, alchemi, alcohol, algebra, algorithm, alkalin, almanac, amber, arsen, assassin, candi, carat, cipher, coffe, cotton, ghoul, hazard, jar, kismet, lemon, loofah, magazin, mattress, sherbet, sofa, sumac, tariff, and zenith.[58] other languag such as maltes[59] and kinubi deriv ultim from arab, rather than mere borrow vocabulari or grammat rule.

term borrow rang from religi terminolog (like berber taẓallit, "prayer", from salat (صلاة‎ ṣalāh)), academ term (like uyghur mentiq, "logic"), and econom item (like english coffe) to placehold (like spanish fulano, "so-and-so"), everydai term (like hindustani lekin, "but", or spanish taza and french tass, mean "cup"), and express (like catalan a betzef, "galor, in quantiti"). most berber varieti (such as kabyl), along with swahili, borrow some number from arab. most islam religi term ar direct borrow from arab, such as صلاة‎ (salat), "prayer", and إمام‎ (imam), "prayer leader."

in languag not directli in contact with the arab world, arab loanword ar often transfer indirectli via other languag rather than be transfer directli from arab. for exampl, most arab loanword in hindustani and turkish enter though persian is an indo-iranian languag. older arab loanword in hausa were borrow from kanuri.

arab word also made their wai into sever west african languag as islam spread across the sahara. variant of arab word such as كتاب‎ kitāb ("book") have spread to the languag of african group who had no direct contact with arab trader.[60]

sinc throughout the islam world, arab occupi a posit similar to that of latin in europ, mani of the arab concept in the field of scienc, philosophi, commerc, etc. were coin from arab root by non-nativ arab speaker, notabl by arama and persian translat, and then found their wai into other languag. thi process of us arab root, especi in kurdish and persian, to translat foreign concept continu through to the 18th and 19th centuri, when swath of arab-inhabit land were under ottoman rule.

influenc of other languag on arab
the most import sourc of borrow into (pre-islam) arab ar from the relat (semit) languag arama,[61] which us to be the princip, intern languag of commun throughout the ancient near and middl east, and ethiop. in addit, mani cultur, religi and polit term have enter arab from iranian languag, notabl middl persian, parthian, and (classic) persian,[62] and hellenist greek (kīmiyāʼ ha as origin the greek khymia, mean in that languag the melt of metal; see roger dachez, histoir de la médecin de l'antiquité au xxe siècl, tallandi, 2008, p. 251), alemb (distil) from ambix (cup), almanac (climat) from almenichiakon (calendar). (for the origin of the last three borrow word, see alfr-loui de prémare, foundat of islam, seuil, l'univ historiqu, 2002.) some arab borrow from semit or persian languag ar, as present in de prémare's abov-cite book:

madīnah/medina (مدينة, citi or citi squar), a word of arama origin (in which it mean "a state")
jazīrah (جزيرة), as in the well-known form الجزيرة "al-jazeera," mean "island" and ha it origin in the syriac ܓܙܝܪܗ gazīra.
lāzaward (لازورد) is taken from persian لاژورد lājvard, the name of a blue stone, lapi lazuli. thi word wa borrow in sever european languag to mean (light) blue – azur in english, azur in french and azul in portugues and spanish.
a comprehens overview of the influenc of other languag on arab is found in luca & manfredi (2020).[55]

arab alphabet and nation
there have been mani instanc of nation movement to convert arab script into latin script or to roman the languag. current, the onli languag deriv from classic arab to us latin script is maltes.

lebanon
the beirut newspap la syri push for the chang from arab script to latin letter in 1922. the major head of thi movement wa loui massignon, a french orientalist, who brought hi concern befor the arab languag academi in damascu in 1928. massignon's attempt at roman fail as the academi and popul view the propos as an attempt from the western world to take over their countri. sa'id afghani, a member of the academi, mention that the movement to roman the script wa a zionist plan to domin lebanon.[63][64]

egypt
after the period of coloni in egypt, egyptian were look for a wai to reclaim and re-emphas egyptian cultur. as a result, some egyptian push for an egyptian of the arab languag in which the formal arab and the colloqui arab would be combin into on languag and the latin alphabet would be us.[63][64] there wa also the idea of find a wai to us hieroglyph instead of the latin alphabet, but thi wa seen as too complic to us.[63][64] a scholar, salama musa agre with the idea of appli a latin alphabet to arab, as he believ that would allow egypt to have a closer relationship with the west. he also believ that latin script wa kei to the success of egypt as it would allow for more advanc in scienc and technolog. thi chang in alphabet, he believ, would solv the problem inher with arab, such as a lack of written vowel and difficulti write foreign word that made it difficult for non-nativ speaker to learn.[63][64] ahmad lutfi as sayid and muhammad azmi, two egyptian intellectu, agre with musa and support the push for roman.[63][65] the idea that roman wa necessari for modern and growth in egypt continu with abd al-aziz fahmi in 1944. he wa the chairman for the write and grammar committe for the arab languag academi of cairo.[63][65] howev, thi effort fail as the egyptian peopl felt a strong cultur tie to the arab alphabet.[63][65] in particular, the older egyptian gener believ that the arab alphabet had strong connect to arab valu and histori, due to the long histori of the arab alphabet (shrivtiel, 189) in muslim societi.

the languag of the quran and it influenc on poetri
the quran introduc a new wai of write to the world. peopl began studi and appli the uniqu style thei learn from the quran to not onli their own write, but also their cultur. writer studi the uniqu structur and format of the quran in order to identifi and appli the figur devic and their impact on the reader.

quran's figur devic
the quran inspir music in poetri through the intern rhythm of the vers. the arrang of word, how certain sound creat harmoni, and the agreement of rhyme creat the sens of rhythm within each vers. at time, the chapter of the quran onli have the rhythm in common.[66]

the repetit in the quran introduc the true power and impact repetit can have in poetri. the repetit of certain word and phrase made them appear more firm and explicit in the quran. the quran us constant metaphor of blind and deaf to impli unbelief. metaphor were not a new concept to poetri, howev the strength of extend metaphor wa. the explicit imageri in the quran inspir mani poet to includ and focu on the featur in their own work. the poet ibn al-mu'tazz wrote a book regard the figur of speech inspir by hi studi of the quran. poet such as badr shakir al sayyab express hi polit opinion in hi work through imageri inspir by the form of more harsher imageri us in the quran.[67] the quran us figur devic in order to express the mean in the most beauti form possibl. the studi of the paus in the quran as well as other rhetor allow it to be approach in a multipl wai.[68]

structur
although the quran is known for it fluenci and harmoni, the structur can be best describ as not alwai be inher chronolog, but can also flow themat instead (the chapter in the quran have segment that flow in chronolog order, howev segment can transit into other segment not relat in chronolog, but could be relat in topic). the sura, also known as chapter of the quran, ar not place in chronolog order. the onli constant in their structur is that the longest ar place first and shorter on follow. the topic discuss in the chapter can also have no direct relat to each other (as seen in mani sura) and can share in their sens of rhyme. the quran introduc to poetri the idea of abandon order and scatter narr throughout the text. harmoni is also present in the sound of the quran. the elong and accent present in the quran creat a harmoni flow within the write. uniqu sound of the quran recit, due to the accent, creat a deeper level of understand through a deeper emot connect.[67]

the quran is written in a languag that is simpl and understand by peopl. the simplic of the write inspir later poet to write in a more clear and clear-cut style.[67] the word of the quran, although unchang, ar to thi dai understand and frequent us in both formal and inform arab. the simplic of the languag make memor and recit the quran a slightli easier task.

cultur and the quran
the writer al-khattabi explain how cultur is a requir element to creat a sens of art in work as well as understand it. he believ that the fluenci and harmoni which the quran possess ar not the onli element that make it beauti and creat a bond between the reader and the text. while a lot of poetri wa deem compar to the quran in that it is equal to or better than the composit of the quran, a debat rose that such statement ar not possibl becaus human ar incap of compos work compar to the quran.[68] becaus the structur of the quran made it difficult for a clear timelin to be seen, hadith were the main sourc of chronolog order. the hadith were pass down from gener to gener and thi tradit becam a larg resourc for understand the context. poetri after the quran began possess thi element of tradit by includ ambigu and background inform to be requir to understand the mean.[66]

after the quran came down to the peopl, the tradit of memor the vers becam present. it is believ that the greater the amount of the quran memor, the greater the faith. as technolog improv over time, hear recit of the quran becam more avail as well as more tool to help memor the vers. the tradit of love poetri serv as a symbol represent of a muslim's desir for a closer contact with their lord.

while the influenc of the quran on arab poetri is explain and defend by numer writer, some writer such as al-baqillani believ that poetri and the quran ar in no conceiv wai relat due to the uniqu of the quran. poetri's imperfect prove hi point that thei cannot be compar with the fluenci the quran hold.

arab and islam
classic arab is the languag of poetri and literatur (includ new); it is also mainli the languag of the quran. classic arab is close associ with the religion of islam becaus the quran wa written in it. most of the world's muslim do not speak classic arab as their nativ languag, but mani can read the quran script and recit the quran. among non-arab muslim, translat of the quran ar most often accompani by the origin text. at present, modern standard arab (msa) is also us in modern version of literari form of the quran.

some muslim present a monogenesi of languag and claim that the arab languag wa the languag reveal by god for the benefit of mankind and the origin languag as a prototyp system of symbol commun, base upon it system of triconsonant root, spoken by man from which all other languag were deriv, have first been corrupt.[69] judaism ha a similar account with the tower of babel.

dialect and descend
main articl: varieti of arab

differ dialect of arab
colloqui arab is a collect term for the spoken dialect of arab us throughout the arab world, which differ radic from the literari languag. the main dialect divis is between the varieti within and outsid of the arabian peninsula, follow by that between sedentari varieti and the much more conserv bedouin varieti. all the varieti outsid of the arabian peninsula (which includ the larg major of speaker) have mani featur in common with each other that ar not found in classic arab. thi ha led research to postul the exist of a prestig koin dialect in the on or two centuri immedi follow the arab conquest, whose featur eventu spread to all newli conquer area. these featur ar present to vari degre insid the arabian peninsula. gener, the arabian peninsula varieti have much more divers than the non-peninsula varieti, but these have been understudi.

within the non-peninsula varieti, the largest differ is between the non-egyptian north african dialect (especi moroccan arab) and the other. moroccan arab in particular is hardli comprehens to arab speaker east of libya (although the convers is not true, in part due to the popular of egyptian film and other media).

on factor in the differenti of the dialect is influenc from the languag previous spoken in the area, which have typic provid a signific number of new word and have sometim also influenc pronunci or word order; howev, a much more signific factor for most dialect is, as among romanc languag, retent (or chang of mean) of differ classic form. thu iraqi aku, levantin fīh and north african kayən all mean 'there is', and all come from classic arab form (yakūn, fīhi, kā'in respect), but now sound veri differ.

exampl
transcript is a broad ipa transcript, so minor differ were ignor for easier comparison. also, the pronunci of modern standard arab differ significantli from region to region.

varieti	i love read a lot	when i went to the librari	i didn't find thi old book	i want to read a book about the histori of women in franc
literari arab in arab script
(common spell)	أحب القراءة كثيرا‎	عندما ذهبت إلى المكتبة‎	لم أجد هذا الكتاب القديم‎	كنت أريد أن أقرأ كتابا عن تاريخ المرأة في فرنسا‎
literari arab in arab script
(with all vowel)	أُحِبُّ ٱلْقِرَاءَةَ كَثِيرًا‎	عِنْدَمَا ذَهَبْتُ إِلَى ٱلْمَكْتَبَةِ‎	لَمْ أَجِد هٰذَا ٱلْكِتَابَ ٱلْقَدِيمَ‎	كُنْتُ أُرِيدُ أَنْ أَقْرَأَ كِتَابًا عَنْ تَارِيخِ ٱلْمَرْأَةِ فِي فَرَنْسَا‎
classic arab
(liturg or poetic onli)	ʔuħibːu‿lqirˤaːʔata kaθiːrˤaː	ʕĩndamaː ðahabᵊtu ʔila‿lmaktabah	lam ʔaɟidᵊ haːða‿lkitaːba‿lqadiːm	kũntu ʔuriːdu ʔan ʔaqᵊrˤaʔa kitaːban ʕan taːriːχi‿lmarˤʔati fiː farˤãnsaː
modern standard arab	ʔuħibːu‿lqiraːʔa kaθiːran	ʕindamaː ðahabt ʔila‿lmaktaba	lam ʔad͡ʒid haːða‿lkitaːba‿lqadiːm	kunt ʔuriːd ʔan ʔaqraʔ kitaːban ʕan taːriːχi‿lmarʔa fiː faransaː
yemeni arab (sanaa)	ana bajn aħibː ilgiraːji(h) gawi	law ma sirt saˈla‿lmaktabih	ma lige:tʃ ðajji‿lkitaːb ilgadiːm	kunt aʃti ʔagra kitaːb ʕan taːriːx ilmari(h) wastˤ faraːnsa
jordanian arab (amman)	ana baħib ligraːj kθiːr	lamːa ruħt ʕalmaktab	ma lageːtʃ haliktaːb ilgadiːm	kaːn bidːi ʔaqra ktaːb ʕan taːriːx ilmara fi faransa
gulf arab (kuwait)	aːna waːjid aħibː aɡra	lamːan riħt ilmaktaba	maː liɡeːt halkitaːb ilgadiːm	kint abi‿(j)aɡra kitaːb ʕan taːriːx ilħariːm‿(i)bfaransa
gələt mesopotamian (baghdad)	aːni‿(j)aħub luqraːja kulːiʃ	lamːan riħit lilmaktabˤɛː	maː liɡeːt haːða liktaːb ilgadiːm	ridit aqra ktaːb ʕan taːriːx inːiswaːn‿(u)bfransɛː
hejazi arab (medina)	ana marːa ʔaħubː alɡiraːja	lamːa ruħt almaktaba	ma liɡiːt haːda lkitaːb alɡadiːm	kunt abɣa ʔaɡra kitaːb ʕan taːriːx alħariːm fi faransa
western syrian arab (damascu)	ana ktiːr bħəb ləʔraːj	lamːa rəħt ʕalmaktab	ma laʔeːt haləktaːb əlʔadiːm	kaːn badːi ʔra ktaːb ʕan taːriːx əlmara bfraːnsa
lebanes arab (beirut?)	ana ktiːr bħib liʔreːji	lamːa riħit ʕalmaktabi	ma lʔeːt halikteːb liʔdiːm	keːn badːi ʔra kteːb ʕan teːriːx ilmara bfraːnsa
urban palestinian (jerusalem)	ana baħib liʔraːj ktiːr	lamːa ruħt ʕalmaktab	ma laʔeːtʃ haliktaːb ilʔadiːm	kaːn bidːi ʔaʔra ktaːb ʕan taːriːx ilmara fi faransa
rural palestinian (west bank)	ana baħib likraːj kθiːr	lamːa ruħt ʕalmatʃtab	ma lakeːtʃ halitʃtaːb ilkadiːm	kaːn bidːi ʔakra tʃtaːb ʕan taːriːx ilmara fi faransa
egyptian (metropolitan)	ana baħebː elʔeraːja ʔawi	lamːa roħt elmakˈtaba	malʔetʃ elketaːb elʔadim da	ana kont(e)‿ʕawz‿aʔra ktab ʕan tariːx esːetˈtat fe faransa
libyan arab (tripoli?)	ana nħəb il-ɡraːja halba	lamma mʃeːt lil-maktba	malɡeːtiʃ ha-li-ktaːb lə-ɡdiːm	kunt nibi naɡra ktaːb ʔleː tariːx ə-nsawiːn fi fraːnsa
tunisian (tuni)	nħib liqraːja barʃa	waqtilli mʃiːt lilmaktba	mal-qiːtʃ ha-likteːb liqdiːm	kʊnt nħib naqra kteːb ʕla terix limra fi fraːnsa
algerian (algier?)	āna nħəbb nəqṛa bezzaf	ki ruħt l-əl-măktaba	ma-lqīt-ʃ hād lə-ktāb lə-qdīm	kŭnt ħābb nəqṛa ktāb ʕla tārīx lə-mṛa fi fṛānsa
moroccan (rabat?)	ana ʕziz ʕlija bzzaf nqra	melli mʃit l-lmaktaba	ma-lqiːt-ʃ had l-ktab l-qdim	kent baɣi nqra ktab ʕla tarix l-mra f-fransa
maltes (valletta)
(in maltes orthographi)	inħobb naqra ħafna.	meta mort il-librerija	ma sibtx dan il-ktieb qadim.	ridt naqra ktieb dwar l-istorja tal-mara fi franza.
koiné
accord to charl a. ferguson,[70] the follow ar some of the characterist featur of the koiné that underli all the modern dialect outsid the arabian peninsula. although mani other featur ar common to most or all of these varieti, ferguson believ that these featur in particular ar unlik to have evolv independ more than onc or twice and togeth suggest the exist of the koin:

loss of the dual number except on noun, with consist plural agreement (cf. feminin singular agreement in plural inanim).
chang of a to i in mani affix (e.g., non-past-tens prefix ti- yi- ni-; wi- 'and'; il- 'the'; feminin -it in the construct state).
loss of third-weak verb end in w (which merg with verb end in y).
reform of gemin verb, e.g., ḥalaltu 'i unti' → ḥalēt(u).
convers of separ word lī 'to me', laka 'to you', etc. into indirect-object clitic suffix.
certain chang in the cardin number system, e.g., khamsat ayyām 'five dai' → kham(a)s tiyyām, where certain word have a special plural with prefix t.
loss of the feminin el (compar).
adject plural of the form kibār 'big' → kubār.
chang of nisba suffix -iyi > i.
certain lexic item, e.g., jāb 'bring' < jāʼa bi- 'come with'; shāf 'see'; ēsh 'what' (or similar) < ayyu shayʼ 'which thing'; illi (rel pronoun).
merger of /ɮˤ/ and /ðˤ/.
dialect group
egyptian arab is spoken by around 53 million peopl in egypt (55 million worldwid).[71] it is on of the most understood varieti of arab, due in larg part to the widespread distribut of egyptian film and televis show throughout the arab-speak world
levantin arab includ north levantin arab, south levantin arab and cypriot arab. it is spoken by about 21 million peopl in lebanon, syria, jordan, palestin, israel, cypru and turkei.
lebanes arab is a varieti of levantin arab spoken primarili in lebanon.
jordanian arab is a continuum of mutual intellig varieti of levantin arab spoken by the popul of the kingdom of jordan.
palestinian arab is a name of sever dialect of the subgroup of levantin arab spoken by the palestinian in palestin, by arab citizen of israel and in most palestinian popul around the world.
samaritan arab, spoken by onli sever hundr in the nablu region
cypriot maronit arab, spoken in cypru
maghrebi arab, also call "darija" spoken by about 70 million peopl in morocco, algeria, tunisia and libya. it also form the basi of maltes via the extinct sicilian arab dialect.[72] maghrebi arab is veri hard to understand for arab speaker from the mashriq or mesopotamia, the most comprehens be libyan arab and the most difficult moroccan arab. the other such as algerian arab can be consid in between the two in term of difficulti.
libyan arab spoken in libya and neighbor countri.
tunisian arab spoken in tunisia and north-eastern algeria
algerian arab spoken in algeria
judeo-algerian arab wa spoken by jew in algeria until 1962
moroccan arab spoken in morocco
hassaniya arab (3 million speaker), spoken in mauritania, western sahara, some part of the azawad in northern mali, southern morocco and south-western algeria.
andalusian arab, spoken in spain until the 16th centuri.
siculo-arab (sicilian arab), wa spoken in sicili and malta between the end of the 9th centuri and the end of the 12th centuri and eventu evolv into the maltes languag.
maltes, spoken on the island of malta, is the onli fulli separ standard languag to have origin from an arab dialect (the extinct siculo-arab dialect), with independ literari norm. maltes ha evolv independ of literari arab and it varieti into a standard languag over the past 800 year in a gradual process of latinis.[73][74] maltes is therefor consid an except descend of arab that ha no digloss relationship with standard arab or classic arab.[75] maltes is also differ from arab and other semit languag sinc it morpholog ha been deepli influenc by romanc languag, italian and sicilian.[76] it is also the onli semit languag written in the latin script. in term of basic everydai languag, speaker of maltes ar report to be abl to understand less than a third of what is said to them in tunisian arab,[77] which is relat to siculo-arab,[72] wherea speaker of tunisian ar abl to understand about 40% of what is said to them in maltes.[78] thi asymmetr intellig is consider lower than the mutual intellig found between maghrebi arab dialect.[79] maltes ha it own dialect, with urban varieti of maltes be closer to standard maltes than rural varieti.[80]
mesopotamian arab, spoken by about 41.2 million peopl in iraq (where it is call "aamiyah"), eastern syria and southwestern iran (khuzestan) and in the southeastern of turkei (in the eastern mediterranean, southeastern anatolia region)
north mesopotamian arab is a spoken north of the hamrin mountain in iraq, in western iran, northern syria, and in southeastern turkei (in the eastern mediterranean region, southeastern anatolia region, and southern eastern anatolia region).[81]
judeo-mesopotamian arab, also known as iraqi judeo arab and yahud, is a varieti of arab spoken by iraqi jew of mosul.
baghdad arab is the arab dialect spoken in baghdad, and the surround citi and it is a subvarieti of mesopotamian arab.
baghdad jewish arab is the dialect spoken by the iraqi jew of baghdad.
south mesopotamian arab (basrawi dialect) is the dialect spoken in southern iraq, such as basra, dhi qar and najaf. [82]
khuzestani arab is the dialect spoken in the iranian provinc of khuzestan. thi dialect is a mix of southen mesopotamian arab and gulf arab.
khorasani arab spoken in the iranian provinc of khorasan.
kuwaiti arab is a gulf arab dialect spoken in kuwait.
sudanes arab is spoken by 17 million peopl in sudan and some part of southern egypt. sudanes arab is quit distinct from the dialect of it neighbor to the north; rather, the sudanes have a dialect similar to the hejazi dialect.
juba arab spoken in south sudan and southern sudan
gulf arab, spoken by around four million peopl, predominantli in kuwait, bahrain, some part of oman, eastern saudi arabia coastal area and some part of uae and qatar. also spoken in iran's bushehr and hormozgan provinc. although gulf arab is spoken in qatar, most qatari citizen speak najdi arab (bedawi).
omani arab, distinct from the gulf arab of eastern arabia and bahrain, spoken in central oman. with recent oil wealth and mobil ha spread over other part of the sultan.
hadhrami arab, spoken by around 8 million peopl, predominantli in hadhramaut, and in part of the arabian peninsula, south and southeast asia, and east africa by hadhrami descend.
yemeni arab spoken in yemen, and southern saudi arabia by 15 million peopl. similar to gulf arab.
najdi arab, spoken by around 10 million peopl, mainli spoken in najd, central and northern saudi arabia. most qatari citizen speak najdi arab (bedawi).
hejazi arab (6 million speaker), spoken in hejaz, western saudi arabia
saharan arab spoken in some part of algeria, niger and mali
baharna arab (600,000 speaker), spoken by bahrani shiʻah in bahrain and qatif, the dialect exhibit mani big differ from gulf arab. it is also spoken to a lesser extent in oman.
judeo-arab dialect – these ar the dialect spoken by the jew that had live or continu to live in the arab world. as jewish migrat to israel took hold, the languag did not thrive and is now consid endang. so-call qәltu arab.
chadian arab, spoken in chad, sudan, some part of south sudan, central african republ, niger, nigeria, cameroon
central asian arab, spoken in uzbekistan, tajikistan and afghanistan, is highli endang
shirvani arab, spoken in azerbaijan and dagestan until the 1930s, now extinct.
phonolog
main articl: arab phonolog
histori
of the 29 proto-semit conson, onli on ha been lost: */ʃ/, which merg with /s/, while /ɬ/ becam /ʃ/ (see semit languag).[83] variou other conson have chang their sound too, but have remain distinct. an origin */p/ lenit to /f/, and */ɡ/ – consist attest in pre-islam greek transcript of arab languag[84] – becam palat to /ɡʲ/ or /ɟ/ by the time of the quran and /d͡ʒ/, /ɡ/, /ʒ/ or /ɟ/ after earli muslim conquest and in msa (see arab phonolog#local variat for more detail).[85] an origin voiceless alveolar later fric */ɬ/ becam /ʃ/.[86] it emphat counterpart /ɬˠ~ɮˤ/ wa consid by arab to be the most unusu sound in arab (henc the classic arab's appel لُغَةُ ٱلضَّادِ‎ lughat al-ḍād or "languag of the ḍād"); for most modern dialect, it ha becom an emphat stop /dˤ/ with loss of the later[86] or with complet loss of ani pharyng or velar, /d/. (the classic ḍād pronunci of pharyng /ɮˤ/ still occur in the mehri languag, and the similar sound without velar, /ɮ/, exist in other modern south arabian languag.)

other chang mai also have happen. classic arab pronunci is not thoroughli record and differ reconstruct of the sound system of proto-semit propos differ phonet valu. on exampl is the emphat conson, which ar pharyng in modern pronunci but mai have been velar in the eighth centuri and glottal in proto-semit.[86]

reduct of /j/ and /w/ between vowel occur in a number of circumst and is respons for much of the complex of third-weak ("defect") verb. earli akkadian transcript of arab name show that thi reduct had not yet occur as of the earli part of the 1st millennium bc.

the classic arab languag as record wa a poetic koin that reflect a conscious archaiz dialect, chosen base on the tribe of the western part of the arabian peninsula, who spoke the most conserv variant of arab. even at the time of muham and befor, other dialect exist with mani more chang, includ the loss of most glottal stop, the loss of case end, the reduct of the diphthong /aj/ and /aw/ into monophthong /eː, oː/, etc. most of these chang ar present in most or all modern varieti of arab.

an interest featur of the write system of the quran (and henc of classic arab) is that it contain certain featur of muhammad's nativ dialect of mecca, correct through diacrit into the form of standard classic arab. among these featur visibl under the correct ar the loss of the glottal stop and a differ develop of the reduct of certain final sequenc contain /j/: evid, final /-awa/ becam /aː/ as in the classic languag, but final /-aja/ becam a differ sound, possibl /eː/ (rather than again /aː/ in the classic languag). thi is the appar sourc of the alif maqṣūrah 'restrict alif' where a final /-aja/ is reconstruct: a letter that would normal indic /j/ or some similar high-vowel sound, but is taken in thi context to be a logic variant of alif and repres the sound /aː/.

although classic arab wa a unitari languag and is now us in quran, it pronunci vari somewhat from countri to countri and from region to region within a countri. it is influenc by colloqui dialect.

literari arab
the "colloqui" spoken dialect of arab ar learn at home and constitut the nativ languag of arab speaker. "formal" literari arab (usual specif modern standard arab) is learn at school; although mani speaker have a nativ-like command of the languag, it is technic not the nativ languag of ani speaker. both varieti can be both written and spoken, although the colloqui varieti ar rare written down and the formal varieti is spoken mostli in formal circumst, e.g., in radio and tv broadcast, formal lectur, parliamentari discuss and to some extent between speaker of differ colloqui dialect. even when the literari languag is spoken, howev, it is normal onli spoken in it pure form when read a prepar text out loud and commun between speaker of differ colloqui dialect. when speak extemporan (i.e. make up the languag on the spot, as in a normal discuss among peopl), speaker tend to deviat somewhat from the strict literari languag in the direct of the colloqui varieti. in fact, there is a continu rang of "in-between" spoken varieti: from nearli pure modern standard arab (msa), to a form that still us msa grammar and vocabulari but with signific colloqui influenc, to a form of the colloqui languag that import a number of word and grammat construct in msa, to a form that is close to pure colloqui but with the "rough edg" (the most notic "vulgar" or non-classic aspect) smooth out, to pure colloqui. the particular variant (or regist) us depend on the social class and educ level of the speaker involv and the level of formal of the speech situat. often it will vari within a singl encount, e.g., move from nearli pure msa to a more mix languag in the process of a radio interview, as the interviewe becom more comfort with the interview. thi type of variat is characterist of the diglossia that exist throughout the arab-speak world.

menu0:00
record of a poem by al-ma'arri titl "i no longer steal from natur"
although modern standard arab (msa) is a unitari languag, it pronunci vari somewhat from countri to countri and from region to region within a countri. the variat in individu "accent" of msa speaker tend to mirror correspond variat in the colloqui speech of the speaker in question, but with the distinguish characterist moder somewhat. it is import in descript of "arab" phonolog to distinguish between pronunci of a given colloqui (spoken) dialect and the pronunci of msa by these same speaker. although thei ar relat, thei ar not the same. for exampl, the phonem that deriv from classic arab /ɟ/ ha mani differ pronunci in the modern spoken varieti, e.g., [d͡ʒ ~ ʒ ~ j ~ ɡʲ ~ ɡ] includ the propos origin [ɟ]. speaker whose nativ varieti ha either [d͡ʒ] or [ʒ] will us the same pronunci when speak msa. even speaker from cairo, whose nativ egyptian arab ha [ɡ], normal us [ɡ] when speak msa. the [j] of persian gulf speaker is the onli variant pronunci which isn't found in msa; [d͡ʒ~ʒ] is us instead, but mai us [j] in msa for comfort pronunci. anoth reason of differ pronunci is influenc of colloqui dialect. the differenti of pronunci of colloqui dialect is the influenc from other languag previous spoken and some still present spoken in the region, such as coptic in egypt, berber, punic, or phoenician in north africa, himyarit, modern south arabian, and old south arabian in yemen and oman, and arama and canaanit languag (includ phoenician) in the levant and mesopotamia.

anoth exampl: mani colloqui varieti ar known for a type of vowel harmoni in which the presenc of an "emphat conson" trigger back allophon of nearbi vowel (especi of the low vowel /aː/, which ar back to [ɑ(ː)] in these circumst and veri often front to [æ(ː)] in all other circumst). in mani spoken varieti, the back or "emphat" vowel allophon spread a fair distanc in both direct from the trigger conson; in some varieti (most notabl egyptian arab), the "emphat" allophon spread throughout the entir word, usual includ prefix and suffix, even at a distanc of sever syllabl from the trigger conson. speaker of colloqui varieti with thi vowel harmoni tend to introduc it into their msa pronunci as well, but usual with a lesser degre of spread than in the colloqui varieti. (for exampl, speaker of colloqui varieti with extrem long-distanc harmoni mai allow a moder, but not extrem, amount of spread of the harmon allophon in their msa speech, while speaker of colloqui varieti with moder-distanc harmoni mai onli harmon immedi adjac vowel in msa.)

vowel
modern standard arab ha six pure vowel (while most modern dialect have eight pure vowel which includ the long vowel /eː oː/), with short /a i u/ and correspond long vowel /aː iː uː/. there ar also two diphthong: /aj/ and /aw/.

the pronunci of the vowel differ from speaker to speaker, in a wai that tend to reflect the pronunci of the correspond colloqui varieti. nonetheless, there ar some common trend. most notic is the differ pronunci of /a/ and /aː/, which tend toward front [æ(ː)], [a(ː)] or [ɛ(ː)] in most situat, but a back [ɑ(ː)] in the neighborhood of emphat conson. some accent and dialect, such as those of the hejaz region, have an open [a(ː)] or a central [ä(ː)] in all situat. the vowel /a/ vari toward [ə(ː)] too. listen to the final vowel in the record of al-ʻarabiyyah at the begin of thi articl, for exampl. the point is, arab ha onli three short vowel phonem, so those phonem can have a veri wide rang of allophon. the vowel /u/ and /ɪ/ ar often affect somewhat in emphat neighborhood as well, with gener more back or central allophon, but the differ ar less great than for the low vowel. the pronunci of short /u/ and /i/ tend toward [ʊ~o] and [i~e~ɨ], respect, in mani dialect.

the definit of both "emphat" and "neighborhood" vari in wai that reflect (to some extent) correspond variat in the spoken dialect. gener, the conson trigger "emphat" allophon ar the pharyng conson /tˤ dˤ sˤ ðˤ/; /q/; and /r/, if not follow immedi by /i(ː)/. frequent, the velar fric /x ɣ/ also trigger emphat allophon; occasion also the pharyng conson /ʕ ħ/ (the former more than the latter). mani dialect have multipl emphat allophon of each vowel, depend on the particular nearbi conson. in most msa accent, emphat color of vowel is limit to vowel immedi adjac to a trigger conson, although in some it spread a bit farther: e.g., وقت‎ waqt [wɑqt] 'time'; وطن‎ waṭan [wɑtˤɑn] 'homeland'; وسط المدينة‎ wasṭ al-madīnah [wæstˤ ɑl mædiːnɐ] 'downtown' (sometim [wɑstˤ ɑl mædiːnæ] or similar).

in a non-emphat environ, the vowel /a/ in the diphthong /aj/ tend to be front even more than elsewher, often pronounc [æj] or [ɛj]: henc سيف‎ sayf [sajf ~ sæjf ~ sɛjf] 'sword' but صيف‎ ṣayf [sˤɑjf] 'summer'. howev, in accent with no emphat allophon of /a/ (e.g., in the hejaz), the pronunci [aj] or [äj] occur in all situat.

conson
see also: literari arab phonolog
conson phonem of modern standard arab
labial	dental	denti-alveolar	post-alv./
palat	velar	uvular	pharyng	glottal
plain	emphat
nasal	m		n						
stop	voiceless			t	tˤ		k	q		ʔ
voic	b		d	dˤ	d͡ʒ				
fric	voiceless	f	θ	s	sˤ	ʃ	x ~ χ	ħ	
voic		ð	z	ðˤ		ɣ ~ ʁ	ʕ	ɦ
trill			r						
approxim			l	(ɫ)	j	w			
the phonem /d͡ʒ/ is repres by the arab letter jīm (ج‎) and ha mani standard pronunci. [d͡ʒ] is characterist of north algeria, iraq, and most of the arabian peninsula but with an allophon [ʒ] in some posit; [ʒ] occur in most of the levant and most of north africa; and [ɡ] is us in most of egypt and some region in yemen and oman. gener thi correspond with the pronunci in the colloqui dialect.[87] in some region in sudan and yemen, as well as in some sudanes and yemeni dialect, it mai be either [ɡʲ] or [ɟ], repres the origin pronunci of classic arab. foreign word contain /ɡ/ mai be transcrib with ج‎, غ‎, ك‎, ق‎, گ‎, ݣ‎ or ڨ‎, mainli depend on the region spoken varieti of arab or the commonli diacritic arab letter. in northern egypt, where the arab letter jīm (ج‎) is normal pronounc [ɡ], a separ phonem /ʒ/, which mai be transcrib with چ‎, occur in a small number of mostli non-arab loanword, e.g., /ʒakitta/ 'jacket'.

/θ/ (ث‎) can be pronounc as [s]. in some place of maghreb it can be also pronounc as [t͡s].

/x/ and /ɣ/ (خ,‎ غ‎) ar velar, post-velar, or uvular.[88]

in mani varieti, /ħ, ʕ/ (ح,‎ ع‎) ar epiglott [ʜ, ʢ] in western asia.

/l/ is pronounc as velar [ɫ] in الله /ʔallaːh/, the name of god, q.e. allah, when the word follow a, ā, u or ū (after i or ī it is unvelar: بسم الله‎ bismi l–lāh /bismillaːh/). some speaker velar other occurr of /l/ in msa, in imit of their spoken dialect.

the emphat conson /dˤ/ wa actual pronounc [ɮˤ], or possibl [d͡ɮˤ][89]—either wai, a highli unusu sound. the mediev arab actual term their languag lughat al-ḍād 'the languag of the ḍād' (the name of the letter us for thi sound), sinc thei thought the sound wa uniqu to their languag. (in fact, it also exist in a few other minor semit languag, e.g., mehri.)

arab ha conson tradition term "emphat" /tˤ, dˤ, sˤ, ðˤ/ (ط,‎ ض,‎ ص,‎ ظ‎), which exhibit simultan pharyng [tˤ, dˤ, sˤ, ðˤ] as well as vari degre of velar [tˠ, dˠ, sˠ, ðˠ] (depend on the region), so thei mai be written with the "velar or pharyng" diacrit ( ̴) as: /t̴, d̴, s̴, ð̴/. thi simultan articul is describ as "retract tongu root" by phonologist.[90] in some transcript system, emphasi is shown by capit the letter, for exampl, /dˤ/ is written ⟨d⟩; in other the letter is underlin or ha a dot below it, for exampl, ⟨ḍ⟩.

vowel and conson can be phonolog short or long. long (gemin) conson ar normal written doubl in latin transcript (i.e. bb, dd, etc.), reflect the presenc of the arab diacrit mark shaddah, which indic doubl conson. in actual pronunci, doubl conson ar held twice as long as short conson. thi conson lengthen is phonem contrast: قبل‎ qabila 'he accept' vs. قبّل‎ qabbala 'he kiss'.

syllabl structur
arab ha two kind of syllabl: open syllabl (cv) and (cvv)—and close syllabl (cvc), (cvvc) and (cvcc). the syllabl type with two mora (unit of time), i.e. cvc and cvv, ar term heavi syllabl, while those with three mora, i.e. cvvc and cvcc, ar superheavi syllabl. superheavi syllabl in classic arab occur in onli two place: at the end of the sentenc (due to pausal pronunci) and in word such as حارّ‎ ḥārr 'hot', مادّة‎ māddah 'stuff, substanc', تحاجوا‎ taḥājjū 'thei disput with each other', where a long ā occur befor two ident conson (a former short vowel between the conson ha been lost). (in less formal pronunci of modern standard arab, superheavi syllabl ar common at the end of word or befor clitic suffix such as -nā 'us, our', due to the delet of final short vowel.)

in surfac pronunci, everi vowel must be preced by a conson (which mai includ the glottal stop [ʔ]). there ar no case of hiatu within a word (where two vowel occur next to each other, without an interven conson). some word do have an underli vowel at the begin, such as the definit articl al- or word such as اشترا‎ ishtarā 'he bought', اجتماع‎ ijtimāʻ 'meet'. when actual pronounc, on of three thing happen:

if the word occur after anoth word end in a conson, there is a smooth transit from final conson to initi vowel, e.g., الاجتماع‎ al-ijtimāʻ 'meet' /alid͡ʒtimaːʕ/.
if the word occur after anoth word end in a vowel, the initi vowel of the word is elid, e.g., بيت المدير‎ baytu (a)l-mudīr 'hous of the director' /bajtulmudiːr/.
if the word occur at the begin of an utter, a glottal stop [ʔ] is ad onto the begin, e.g., البيت هو‎ al-baytu huwa ... 'the hous is ...' /ʔalbajtuhuwa ... /.
stress
word stress is not phonem contrast in standard arab. it bear a strong relationship to vowel length. the basic rule for modern standard arab ar:

a final vowel, long or short, mai not be stress.
onli on of the last three syllabl mai be stress.
given thi restrict, the last heavi syllabl (contain a long vowel or end in a conson) is stress, if it is not the final syllabl.
if the final syllabl is super heavi and close (of the form cvvc or cvcc) it receiv stress.
if no syllabl is heavi or super heavi, the first possibl syllabl (i.e. third from end) is stress.
as a special except, in form vii and viii verb form stress mai not be on the first syllabl, despit the abov rule: henc inkatab(a) 'he subscrib' (whether or not the final short vowel is pronounc), yankatib(u) 'he subscrib' (whether or not the final short vowel is pronounc), yankatib 'he should subscrib (juss.)'. likewis form viii ishtarā 'he bought', yashtarī 'he bui'.
exampl:kitāb(un) 'book', kā-ti-b(un) 'writer', mak-ta-b(un) 'desk', ma-kā-ti-b(u) 'desk', mak-ta-ba-tun 'librari' (but mak-ta-ba(-tun) 'librari' in short pronunci), ka-ta-bū (modern standard arab) 'thei wrote' = ka-ta-bu (dialect), ka-ta-bū-h(u) (modern standard arab) 'thei wrote it' = ka-ta-bū (dialect), ka-ta-ba-tā (modern standard arab) 'thei (dual, fem) wrote', ka-tab-tu (modern standard arab) 'i wrote' = ka-tabt (short form or dialect). doubl conson count as two conson: ma-jal-la-(tan) 'magazin', ma-ḥall(-un) "place".

these rule mai result in differ stress syllabl when final case end ar pronounc, vs. the normal situat where thei ar not pronounc, as in the abov exampl of mak-ta-ba-tun 'librari' in full pronunci, but mak-ta-ba(-tun) 'librari' in short pronunci.

the restrict on final long vowel doe not appli to the spoken dialect, where origin final long vowel have been shorten and secondari final long vowel have arisen from loss of origin final -hu/hi.

some dialect have differ stress rule. in the cairo (egyptian arab) dialect a heavi syllabl mai not carri stress more than two syllabl from the end of a word, henc mad-ra-sah 'school', qā-hi-rah 'cairo'. thi also affect the wai that modern standard arab is pronounc in egypt. in the arab of sanaa, stress is often retract: bai-tayn 'two hous', mā-sat-hum 'their tabl', ma-kā-tīb 'desk', zā-rat-ḥīn 'sometim', mad-ra-sat-hum 'their school'. (in thi dialect, onli syllabl with long vowel or diphthong ar consid heavi; in a two-syllabl word, the final syllabl can be stress onli if the preced syllabl is light; and in longer word, the final syllabl cannot be stress.)

level of pronunci
the final short vowel (e.g., the case end -a -i -u and mood end -u -a) ar often not pronounc in thi languag, despit form part of the formal paradigm of noun and verb. the follow level of pronunci exist:

full pronunci with pausa
thi is the most formal level actual us in speech. all end ar pronounc as written, except at the end of an utter, where the follow chang occur:

final short vowel ar not pronounc. (but possibl an except is made for feminin plural -na and shorten vowel in the jussiv/imper of defect verb, e.g., irmi! 'throw!'".)
the entir indefinit noun end -in and -un (with nunat) ar left off. the end -an is left off of noun preced by a tāʾ marbūṭah ة (i.e. the -t in the end -at- that typic mark feminin noun), but pronounc as -ā in other noun (henc it write in thi fashion in the arab script).
the tāʼ marbūṭah itself (typic of feminin noun) is pronounc as h. (at least, thi is the case in extrem formal pronunci, e.g., some quran recit. in practic, thi h is usual omit.)
formal short pronunci
thi is a formal level of pronunci sometim seen. it is somewhat like pronounc all word as if thei were in pausal posit (with influenc from the colloqui varieti). the follow chang occur:

most final short vowel ar not pronounc. howev, the follow short vowel ar pronounc:
feminin plural -na
shorten vowel in the jussiv/imper of defect verb, e.g., irmi! 'throw!'
second-person singular feminin past-tens -ti and likewis anti 'you (fem. sg.)'
sometim, first-person singular past-tens -tu
sometim, second-person masculin past-tens -ta and likewis anta 'you (masc. sg.)'
final -a in certain short word, e.g., laysa 'is not', sawfa (futur-tens marker)
the nunat end -an -in -un ar not pronounc. howev, thei ar pronounc in adverbi accus format, e.g., taqrīban تَقْرِيبًا 'almost, approxim', ʻādatan عَادَةً 'usual'.
the tāʾ marbūṭah end ة is unpronounc, except in construct state noun, where it sound as t (and in adverbi accus construct, e.g., ʻādatan عَادَةً 'usual', where the entir -tan is pronounc).
the masculin singular nisbah end -iyi is actual pronounc -ī and is unstress (but plural and feminin singular form, i.e. when follow by a suffix, still sound as -iyi-).
full end (includ case end) occur when a clitic object or possess suffix is ad (e.g., -nā 'us/our').
inform short pronunci
thi is the pronunci us by speaker of modern standard arab in extemporan speech, i.e. when produc new sentenc rather than simpli read a prepar text. it is similar to formal short pronunci except that the rule for drop final vowel appli even when a clitic suffix is ad. basic, short-vowel case and mood end ar never pronounc and certain other chang occur that echo the correspond colloqui pronunci. specif:

all the rule for formal short pronunci appli, except as follow.
the past tens singular end written formal as -tu -ta -ti ar pronounc -t -t -ti. but masculin ʾanta is pronounc in full.
unlik in formal short pronunci, the rule for drop or modifi final end ar also appli when a clitic object or possess suffix is ad (e.g., -nā 'us/our'). if thi produc a sequenc of three conson, then on of the follow happen, depend on the speaker's nativ colloqui varieti:
a short vowel (e.g., -i- or -ǝ-) is consist ad, either between the second and third or the first and second conson.
or, a short vowel is ad onli if an otherwis unpronounc sequenc occur, typic due to a violat of the sonor hierarchi (e.g., -rtn- is pronounc as a three-conson cluster, but -trn- need to be broken up).
or, a short vowel is never ad, but conson like r l m n occur between two other conson will be pronounc as a syllab conson (as in the english word "butter bottl bottom button").
when a doubl conson occur befor anoth conson (or final), it is often shorten to a singl conson rather than a vowel ad. (howev, moroccan arab never shorten doubl conson or insert short vowel to break up cluster, instead toler arbitrari-length seri of arbitrari conson and henc moroccan arab speaker ar like to follow the same rule in their pronunci of modern standard arab.)
the clitic suffix themselv tend also to be chang, in a wai that avoid mani possibl occurr of three-conson cluster. in particular, -ka -ki -hu gener sound as -ak -ik -uh.
final long vowel ar often shorten, merg with ani short vowel that remain.
depend on the level of formal, the speaker's educ level, etc., variou grammat chang mai occur in wai that echo the colloqui variant:
ani remain case end (e.g. masculin plural nomin -ūn vs. obliqu -īn) will be level, with the obliqu form us everywher. (howev, in word like ab 'father' and akh 'brother' with special long-vowel case end in the construct state, the nomin is us everywher, henc abū 'father of', akhū 'brother of'.)
feminin plural end in verb and clitic suffix will often drop out, with the masculin plural end us instead. if the speaker's nativ varieti ha feminin plural end, thei mai be preserv, but will often be modifi in the direct of the form us in the speaker's nativ varieti, e.g. -an instead of -na.
dual end will often drop out except on noun and then us onli for emphasi (similar to their us in the colloqui varieti); elsewher, the plural end ar us (or feminin singular, if appropri).
colloqui varieti
further inform: varieti of arab
vowel
vowel phonem of modern standard arab
short	long
front	back	front	back
close	/i/	/u/	/iː/	/uː/
open	/a/	/aː/
diphthong	/aw/, /aj/
most common vowel system among arab dialect
short	long
front	back	front	back
close	/i/	/u/	/iː/	/uː/
mid	/eː/	/oː/
open	/a/	/aː/
diphthong	/aw/, /aj/
as mention abov, mani spoken dialect have a process of emphasi spread, where the "emphasi" (pharyng) of emphat conson spread forward and back through adjac syllabl, pharyng all nearbi conson and trigger the back allophon [ɑ(ː)] in all nearbi low vowel. the extent of emphasi spread vari. for exampl, in moroccan arab, it spread as far as the first full vowel (i.e. sound deriv from a long vowel or diphthong) on either side; in mani levantin dialect, it spread indefinit, but is block by ani /j/ or /ʃ/; while in egyptian arab, it usual spread throughout the entir word, includ prefix and suffix. in moroccan arab, /i u/ also have emphat allophon [e~ɛ] and [o~ɔ], respect.

unstress short vowel, especi /i u/, ar delet in mani context. mani sporad exampl of short vowel chang have occur (especi /a/→/i/ and interchang /i/↔/u/). most levantin dialect merg short /i u/ into /ə/ in most context (all except directli befor a singl final conson). in moroccan arab, on the other hand, short /u/ trigger labial of nearbi conson (especi velar conson and uvular conson), and then short /a i u/ all merg into /ə/, which is delet in mani context. (the labial plu /ə/ is sometim interpret as an underli phonem /ŭ/.) thi essenti caus the wholesal loss of the short-long vowel distinct, with the origin long vowel /aː iː uː/ remain as half-long [aˑ iˑ uˑ], phonem /a i u/, which ar us to repres both short and long vowel in borrow from literari arab.

most spoken dialect have monophthong origin /aj aw/ to /eː oː/ in most circumst, includ adjac to emphat conson, while keep them as the origin diphthong in other e.g. مَوْعِد‎ /mawʕid/. in most of the moroccan, algerian and tunisian (except sahel and southeastern) arab dialect, thei have subsequ merg into origin /iː uː/.

conson
in most dialect, there mai be more or fewer phonem than those list in the chart abov. for exampl, [g] is consid a nativ phonem in most arab dialect except in levantin dialect like syrian or lebanes where ج‎ is pronounc [ʒ] and ق‎ is pronounc [ʔ]. [d͡ʒ] or [ʒ] (ج‎) is consid a nativ phonem in most dialect except in egyptian and a number of yemeni and omani dialect where ج‎ is pronounc [g]. [zˤ] or [ðˤ] and [dˤ] ar distinguish in the dialect of egypt, sudan, the levant and the hejaz, but thei have merg as [ðˤ] in most dialect of the arabian peninsula, iraq and tunisia and have merg as [dˤ] in morocco and algeria. the usag of non-nativ [p] پ‎ and [v] ڤ‎ depend on the usag of each speaker but thei might be more preval in some dialect than other. the iraqi and gulf arab also ha the sound [t͡ʃ] and write it and [ɡ] with the persian letter چ and گ, as in گوجة gawjah "plum"; چمة chimah "truffl".

earli in the expans of arab, the separ emphat phonem [ɮˤ] and [ðˤ] coalesc into a singl phonem [ðˤ]. mani dialect (such as egyptian, levantin, and much of the maghreb) subsequ lost interdent fric, convert [θ ð ðˤ] into [t d dˤ]. most dialect borrow "learn" word from the standard languag us the same pronunci as for inherit word, but some dialect without interdent fric (particularli in egypt and the levant) render origin [θ ð ðˤ dˤ] in borrow word as [s z zˤ dˤ].

anoth kei distinguish mark of arab dialect is how thei render the origin velar and uvular plosiv /q/, /d͡ʒ/ (proto-semit /ɡ/), and /k/:

ق‎ /q/ retain it origin pronunci in wide scatter region such as yemen, morocco, and urban area of the maghreb. it is pronounc as a glottal stop [ʔ] in sever prestig dialect, such as those spoken in cairo, beirut and damascu. but it is render as a voic velar plosiv [ɡ] in persian gulf, upper egypt, part of the maghreb, and less urban part of the levant (e.g. jordan). in iraqi arab it sometim retain it origin pronunci and is sometim render as a voic velar plosiv, depend on the word. some tradition christian villag in rural area of the levant render the sound as [k], as do shiʻi bahraini. in some gulf dialect, it is palat to [d͡ʒ] or [ʒ]. it is pronounc as a voic uvular constrict [ʁ] in sudanes arab. mani dialect with a modifi pronunci for /q/ maintain the [q] pronunci in certain word (often with religi or educ overton) borrow from the classic languag.
ج‎ /d͡ʒ/ is pronounc as an affric in iraq and much of the arabian peninsula but is pronounc [ɡ] in most of north egypt and part of yemen and oman, [ʒ] in morocco, tunisia, and the levant, and [j], [i̠] in most word in much of the persian gulf.
ك‎ /k/ usual retain it origin pronunci but is palat to /t͡ʃ/ in mani word in israel and the palestinian territori, iraq, and countri in the eastern part of the arabian peninsula. often a distinct is made between the suffix /-ak/ ('you', masc.) and /-ik/ ('you', fem.), which becom /-ak/ and /-it͡ʃ/, respect. in sana'a, omani, and bahrani /-ik/ is pronounc /-iʃ/.
pharyng of the emphat conson tend to weaken in mani of the spoken varieti, and to spread from emphat conson to nearbi sound. in addit, the "emphat" allophon [ɑ] automat trigger pharyng of adjac sound in mani dialect. as a result, it mai difficult or imposs to determin whether a given coron conson is phonem emphat or not, especi in dialect with long-distanc emphasi spread. (a notabl except is the sound /t/ vs. /tˤ/ in moroccan arab, becaus the former is pronounc as an affric [t͡s] but the latter is not.)

grammar

exampl of how the arab root and form system work
main articl: arab grammar
literari arab
main articl: modern standard arab
as in other semit languag, arab ha a complex and unusu morpholog (i.e. method of construct word from a basic root). arab ha a nonconcaten "root-and-pattern" morpholog: a root consist of a set of bare conson (usual three), which ar fit into a discontinu pattern to form word. for exampl, the word for 'i wrote' is construct by combin the root k-t-b 'write' with the pattern -a-a-tu 'i xed' to form katabtu 'i wrote'. other verb mean 'i xed' will typic have the same pattern but with differ conson, e.g. qaraʼtu 'i read', akaltu 'i at', dhahabtu 'i went', although other pattern ar possibl (e.g. sharibtu 'i drank', qultu 'i said', takallamtu 'i spoke', where the subpattern us to signal the past tens mai chang but the suffix -tu is alwai us).

from a singl root k-t-b, numer word can be form by appli differ pattern:

كَتَبْتُ katabtu 'i wrote'
كَتَّبْتُ kattabtu 'i had (someth) written'
كَاتَبْتُ kātabtu 'i correspond (with someon)'
أَكْتَبْتُ 'aktabtu 'i dictat'
اِكْتَتَبْتُ iktatabtu 'i subscrib'
تَكَاتَبْنَا takātabnā 'we correspond with each other'
أَكْتُبُ 'aktubu 'i write'
أُكَتِّبُ 'ukattibu 'i have (someth) written'
أُكَاتِبُ 'ukātibu 'i correspond (with someon)'
أُكْتِبُ 'uktibu 'i dictat'
أَكْتَتِبُ 'aktatibu 'i subscrib'
نَتَكَتِبُ natakātabu 'we correspond each other'
كُتِبَ kutiba 'it wa written'
أُكْتِبَ 'uktiba 'it wa dictat'
مَكْتُوبٌ maktūbun 'written'
مُكْتَبٌ muktabun 'dictat'
كِتَابٌ kitābun 'book'
كُتُبٌ kutubun 'book'
كَاتِبٌ kātibun 'writer'
كُتَّابٌ kuttābun 'writer'
مَكْتَبٌ maktabun 'desk, offic'
مَكْتَبَةٌ maktabatun 'librari, bookshop'
etc.
noun and adject
noun in literari arab have three grammat case (nomin, accus, and genit [also us when the noun is govern by a preposit]); three number (singular, dual and plural); two gender (masculin and feminin); and three "state" (indefinit, definit, and construct). the case of singular noun (other than those that end in long ā) ar indic by suffix short vowel (/-u/ for nomin, /-a/ for accus, /-i/ for genit).

the feminin singular is often mark by ـَة /-at/, which is pronounc as /-ah/ befor a paus. plural is indic either through end (the sound plural) or intern modif (the broken plural). definit noun includ all proper noun, all noun in "construct state" and all noun which ar prefix by the definit articl اَلْـ /al-/. indefinit singular noun (other than those that end in long ā) add a final /-n/ to the case-mark vowel, give /-un/, /-an/ or /-in/ (which is also refer to as nunat or tanwīn).

adject in literari arab ar mark for case, number, gender and state, as for noun. howev, the plural of all non-human noun is alwai combin with a singular feminin adject, which take the ـَة /-at/ suffix.

pronoun in literari arab ar mark for person, number and gender. there ar two varieti, independ pronoun and enclit. enclit pronoun ar attach to the end of a verb, noun or preposit and indic verbal and preposit object or possess of noun. the first-person singular pronoun ha a differ enclit form us for verb (ـنِي /-nī/) and for noun or preposit (ـِي /-ī/ after conson, ـيَ /-ya/ after vowel).

noun, verb, pronoun and adject agre with each other in all respect. howev, non-human plural noun ar grammat consid to be feminin singular. furthermor, a verb in a verb-initi sentenc is mark as singular regardless of it semant number when the subject of the verb is explicitli mention as a noun. numer between three and ten show "chiasmic" agreement, in that grammat masculin numer have feminin mark and vice versa.

verb
further inform: arab verb
verb in literari arab ar mark for person (first, second, or third), gender, and number. thei ar conjug in two major paradigm (past and non-past); two voic (activ and passiv); and six mood (indic, imper, subjunct, jussiv, shorter energet and longer energet), the fifth and sixth mood, the energet, exist onli in classic arab but not in msa.[91] there ar also two participl (activ and passiv) and a verbal noun, but no infinit.

the past and non-past paradigm ar sometim also term perfect and imperfect, indic the fact that thei actual repres a combin of tens and aspect. the mood other than the indic occur onli in the non-past, and the futur tens is signal by prefix سَـ sa- or سَوْفَ sawfa onto the non-past. the past and non-past differ in the form of the stem (e.g., past كَتَبـkatab- vs. non-past ـكْتُبـ -ktub-), and also us complet differ set of affix for indic person, number and gender: in the past, the person, number and gender ar fuse into a singl suffix morphem, while in the non-past, a combin of prefix (primarili encod person) and suffix (primarili encod gender and number) ar us. the passiv voic us the same person/number/gender affix but chang the vowel of the stem.

the follow show a paradigm of a regular arab verb, كَتَبَ kataba 'to write'. in modern standard, the energet mood (in either long or short form, which have the same mean) is almost never us.

deriv
like other semit languag, and unlik most other languag, arab make much more us of nonconcaten morpholog (appli mani templat appli root) to deriv word than ad prefix or suffix to word.

for verb, a given root can occur in mani differ deriv verb stem (of which there ar about fifteen), each with on or more characterist mean and each with it own templat for the past and non-past stem, activ and passiv participl, and verbal noun. these ar refer to by western scholar as "form i", "form ii", and so on through "form xv" (although form xi to xv ar rare). these stem encod grammat function such as the caus, intens and reflex. stem share the same root conson repres separ verb, albeit often semant relat, and each is the basi for it own conjug paradigm. as a result, these deriv stem ar part of the system of deriv morpholog, not part of the inflect system.

exampl of the differ verb form from the root كتب k-t-b 'write' (us حمر ḥ-m-r 'red' for form ix, which is limit to color and physic defect):

most of these form ar exclus classic arab
form	past	mean	non-past	mean
i	kataba	'he wrote'	yaktubu	'he write'
ii	kattaba	'he made (someon) write'	yukattibu	"he make (someon) write"
iii	kātaba	'he correspond with, wrote to (someon)'	yukātibu	'he correspond with, write to (someon)'
iv	ʾaktaba	'he dictat'	yuktibu	'he dictat'
v	takattaba	'nonexist'	yatakattabu	'nonexist'
vi	takātaba	'he correspond (with someon, esp. mutual)'	yatakātabu	'he correspond (with someon, esp. mutual)'
vii	inkataba	'he subscrib'	yankatibu	'he subscrib'
viii	iktataba	'he copi'	yaktatibu	'he copi'
ix	iḥmarra	'he turn red'	yaḥmarru	'he turn red'
x	istaktaba	'he ask (someon) to write'	yastaktibu	'he ask (someon) to write'
form ii is sometim us to creat transit denomin verb (verb built from noun); form v is the equival us for intransit denomin.

the associ participl and verbal noun of a verb ar the primari mean of form new lexic noun in arab. thi is similar to the process by which, for exampl, the english gerund "meet" (similar to a verbal noun) ha turn into a noun refer to a particular type of social, often work-relat event where peopl gather togeth to have a "discuss" (anoth lexic verbal noun). anoth fairli common mean of form noun is through on of a limit number of pattern that can be appli directli to root, such as the "noun of locat" in ma- (e.g. maktab 'desk, offic' < k-t-b 'write', maṭbakh 'kitchen' < ṭ-b-kh 'cook').

the onli three genuin suffix ar as follow:

the feminin suffix -ah; various deriv term for women from relat term for men, or more gener term along the same line as the correspond masculin, e.g. maktabah 'librari' (also a write-relat place, but differ from maktab, as abov).
the nisbah suffix -iyi-. thi suffix is extrem product, and form adject mean "relat to x". it correspond to english adject in -ic, -al, -an, -y, -ist, etc.
the feminin nisbah suffix -iyyah. thi is form by ad the feminin suffix -ah onto nisba adject to form abstract noun. for exampl, from the basic root sh-r-k 'share' can be deriv the form viii verb ishtaraka 'to cooper, particip', and in turn it verbal noun ishtirāk 'cooper, particip' can be form. thi in turn can be made into a nisbah adject ishtirākī 'socialist', from which an abstract noun ishtirākiyyah 'social' can be deriv. other recent format ar jumhūriyyah 'republ' (lit. "public-ness", < jumhūr 'multitud, gener public'), and the gaddafi-specif variat jamāhīriyyah 'peopl's republ' (lit. "mass-ness", < jamāhīr 'the mass', pl. of jumhūr, as abov).
colloqui varieti
main articl: varieti of arab
the spoken dialect have lost the case distinct and make onli limit us of the dual (it occur onli on noun and it us is no longer requir in all circumst). thei have lost the mood distinct other than imper, but mani have sinc gain new mood through the us of prefix (most often /bi-/ for indic vs. unmark subjunct). thei have also mostli lost the indefinit "nunat" and the intern passiv.

the follow is an exampl of a regular verb paradigm in egyptian arab.

exampl of a regular form i verb in egyptian arab, kátab/yíktib "write"
tens/mood	past	present subjunct	present indic	futur	imper
singular
1st	katáb-t	á-ktib	bá-ktib	ḥá-ktib	"
2nd	masculin	katáb-t	tí-ktib	bi-tí-ktib	ḥa-tí-ktib	í-ktib
feminin	katáb-ti	ti-ktíb-i	bi-ti-ktíb-i	ḥa-ti-ktíb-i	i-ktíb-i
3rd	masculin	kátab	yí-ktib	bi-yí-ktib	ḥa-yí-ktib	"
feminin	kátab-it	tí-ktib	bi-tí-ktib	ḥa-tí-ktib
plural
1st	katáb-na	ní-ktib	bi-ní-ktib	ḥá-ní-ktib	"
2nd	katáb-tu	ti-ktíb-u	bi-ti-ktíb-u	ḥa-ti-ktíb-u	i-ktíb-u
3rd	kátab-u	yi-ktíb-u	bi-yi-ktíb-u	ḥa-yi-ktíb-u	"
write system
main articl: arab alphabet and arab braill

arab calligraphi written by a malai muslim in malaysia. the calligraph is make a rough draft.
the arab alphabet deriv from the arama through nabatean, to which it bear a loos resembl like that of coptic or cyril script to greek script. tradition, there were sever differ between the western (north african) and middl eastern version of the alphabet—in particular, the faʼ had a dot underneath and qaf a singl dot abov in the maghreb, and the order of the letter wa slightli differ (at least when thei were us as numer).

howev, the old maghrebi variant ha been abandon except for calligraph purpos in the maghreb itself, and remain in us mainli in the quran school (zaouia) of west africa. arab, like all other semit languag (except for the latin-written maltes, and the languag with the ge'ez script), is written from right to left. there ar sever style of script such as thuluth, muhaqqaq, tawqi, rayhan and notabl naskh, which is us in print and by comput, and ruqʻah, which is commonli us for correspond.[92][93]

origin arab wa made up of onli rasm without diacrit mark[94] later diacrit point (which in arab ar refer to as nuqaṯ) were ad (which allow reader to distinguish between letter such as b, t, th, n and y). final sign known as tashkil were us for short vowel known as harakat and other us such as final postnas or long vowel.

calligraphi
main articl: arab calligraphi
after khalil ibn ahmad al farahidi final fix the arab script around 786, mani style were develop, both for the write down of the quran and other book, and for inscript on monument as decor.

arab calligraphi ha not fallen out of us as calligraphi ha in the western world, and is still consid by arab as a major art form; calligraph ar held in great esteem. be cursiv by natur, unlik the latin script, arab script is us to write down a vers of the quran, a hadith, or simpli a proverb. the composit is often abstract, but sometim the write is shape into an actual form such as that of an anim. on of the current master of the genr is hassan massoudi.

in modern time the intrins calligraph natur of the written arab form is haunt by the thought that a typograph approach to the languag, necessari for digit unif, will not alwai accur maintain mean convei through calligraphi.[95]

roman
main articl: roman of arab
exampl of differ transliter/transcript scheme
letter	ipa	ungegn	ala-lc	wehr	din	iso	sa	- 2	batr	arabtex	chat
ء‎	ʔ	ʼ	ʾ	ˈ, ˌ	ʾ	'	e	'	2
ا‎	aː	ā	ʾ	ā	aa	aa / a	a	a/e/é
ي‎	j, iː	y	y; ī	y; e	y; ii	y	y; i/ee; ei/ai
ث‎	θ	th	ṯ	ç	ṯ	c	_t	s/th
ج‎	d͡ʒ~ɡ~ʒ	j	ǧ	ŷ	j	j	^g	j/g/dj
ح‎	ħ	ḩ	ḥ	h	.h	7
خ‎	x	kh	ḵ	ḫ	ẖ	j	x	k	_h	kh/7'/5
ذ‎	ð	dh	ḏ	đ	z'	_d	z/dh/th
ش‎	ʃ	sh	š	x	^s	sh/ch
ص‎	sˤ	ş	ṣ	s	.s	s/9
ض‎	dˤ	ḑ	ḍ	d	.d	d/9'
ط‎	tˤ	ţ	ṭ	t	.tu	t/6
ظ‎	ðˤ~zˤ	z̧	ẓ	đ̣	z	.z	z/dh/6'
ع‎	ʕ	ʻ	ʿ	ř	e	'	3
غ‎	ɣ	gh	ḡ	ġ	g	j	g	.g	gh/3'/8
there ar a number of differ standard for the roman of arab, i.e. method of accur and effici repres arab with the latin script. there ar variou conflict motiv involv, which lead to multipl system. some ar interest in transliter, i.e. repres the spell of arab, while other focu on transcript, i.e. repres the pronunci of arab. (thei differ in that, for exampl, the same letter ي‎ is us to repres both a conson, as in "you" or "yet", and a vowel, as in "me" or "eat".) some system, e.g. for scholarli us, ar intend to accur and unambigu repres the phonem of arab, gener make the phonet more explicit than the origin word in the arab script. these system ar heavili reliant on diacrit mark such as "š" for the sound equival written sh in english. other system (e.g. the bahá'í orthographi) ar intend to help reader who ar neither arab speaker nor linguist with intuit pronunci of arab name and phrase.[citat need] these less "scientif" system tend to avoid diacrit and us digraph (like sh and kh). these ar usual simpler to read, but sacrific the definit of the scientif system, and mai lead to ambigu, e.g. whether to interpret sh as a singl sound, as in gash, or a combin of two sound, as in gashous. the ala-lc roman solv thi problem by separ the two sound with a prime symbol ( ′ ); e.g., as′hal 'easier'.

dure the last few decad and especi sinc the 1990s, western-invent text commun technolog have becom preval in the arab world, such as person comput, the world wide web, email, bulletin board system, irc, instant messag and mobil phone text messag. most of these technolog origin had the abil to commun us the latin script onli, and some of them still do not have the arab script as an option featur. as a result, arab speak user commun in these technolog by transliter the arab text us the latin script, sometim known as im arab.

to handl those arab letter that cannot be accur repres us the latin script, numer and other charact were appropri. for exampl, the numer "3" mai be us to repres the arab letter ⟨ع‎⟩. there is no univers name for thi type of transliter, but some have name it arab chat alphabet. other system of transliter exist, such as us dot or capit to repres the "emphat" counterpart of certain conson. for instanc, us capit, the letter ⟨د‎⟩, mai be repres by d. it emphat counterpart, ⟨ض‎⟩, mai be written as d.

numer
in most of present-dai north africa, the western arab numer (0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9) ar us. howev, in egypt and arab-speak countri to the east of it, the eastern arab numer (٠‎ – ١‎ – ٢‎ – ٣‎ – ٤‎ – ٥‎ – ٦‎ – ٧‎ – ٨‎ – ٩‎) ar in us. when repres a number in arab, the lowest-valu posit is place on the right, so the order of posit is the same as in left-to-right script. sequenc of digit such as telephon number ar read from left to right, but number ar spoken in the tradit arab fashion, with unit and ten revers from the modern english usag. for exampl, 24 is said "four and twenti" just like in the german languag (vierundzwanzig) and classic hebrew, and 1975 is said "a thousand and nine-hundr and five and seventi" or, more eloqu, "a thousand and nine-hundr five seventi"

languag-standard regul
see also: arab languag intern council
academi of the arab languag is the name of a number of languag-regul bodi form in the arab leagu. the most activ ar in damascu and cairo. thei review languag develop, monitor new word and approv inclus of new word into their publish standard dictionari. thei also publish old and histor arab manuscript.

as a foreign languag
arab ha been taught worldwid in mani elementari and secondari school, especi muslim school. univers around the world have class that teach arab as part of their foreign languag, middl eastern studi, and religi studi cours. arab languag school exist to assist student to learn arab outsid the academ world. there ar mani arab languag school in the arab world and other muslim countri. becaus the quran is written in arab and all islam term ar in arab, million[96] of muslim (both arab and non-arab) studi the languag. softwar and book with tape ar also import part of arab learn, as mani of arab learner mai live in place where there ar no academ or arab languag school class avail. radio seri of arab languag class ar also provid from some radio station.[97] a number of websit on the internet provid onlin class for all level as a mean of distanc educ; most teach modern standard arab, but some teach region varieti from numer countri.[98]

statu in the arab world vs. other languag
with the sole exampl of mediev linguist abu hayyan al-gharnati – who, while a scholar of the arab languag, wa not ethnic arab – mediev scholar of the arab languag made no effort at studi compar linguist, consid all other languag inferior.[99]

in modern time, the educ upper class in the arab world have taken a nearli opposit view. yasir suleiman wrote in 2011 that "studi and know english or french in most of the middl east and north africa have becom a badg of sophist and modern and ... feign, or assert, weak or lack of facil in arab is sometim parad as a sign of statu, class, and pervers, even educ through a mélang of code-switch practis."[100]

see also
	islam portal
arab ontolog
arab diglossia
arab influenc on the spanish languag
arab literatur
arab–english lexicon
arabist
dictionari of modern written arab
glossari of islam
intern associ of arab dialectolog
list of arab newspap
list of arab-languag televis channel
list of arab given name
list of arabophon
list of countri where arab is an offici languag
list of french word of arab origin
list of replac loanword in turkish
refer
citat
 "arab – ethnologu". ethnologu. simon, gari f. and charl d. fennig (ed.). 2018. ethnologu: languag of the world, 21st edit. archiv from the origin on 5 januari 2016. retriev 21 februari 2018.
 "basic law: israel - the nation state of the jewish peopl" (pdf). knesset. 19 juli 2018. archiv (pdf) from the origin on 10 april 2021. retriev 13 januari 2021.
 semit languag: an intern handbook / edit by stefan wening; in collabor with geoffrei khan, michael p. streck, janet c. e.watson; walter de gruyter gmbh & co. kg, berlin/boston, 2011.
 "al-jallad. the earliest stage of arab and it linguist classif (routledg handbook of arab linguist, forthcom)". archiv from the origin on 23 octob 2017. retriev 27 octob 2016.
 macdonald, michael c. a. "arabian, arabia, and the greek_contact and percept": 16–17.
 "document for iso 639 identifi: ara". archiv from the origin on 3 march 2016. retriev 20 march 2018.
 kamusella, tomasz (2017). "the arab languag: a latin of modern?" (pdf). journal of nation, memori & languag polit. 11 (2): 117–145. doi:10.1515/jnmlp-2017-0006. s2cid 158624482. archiv (pdf) from the origin on 12 decemb 2019. retriev 28 june 2019.
 wright (2001:492)
 "maltes languag". encyclopedia britannica. archiv from the origin on 24 septemb 2019. retriev 21 decemb 2019.
 versteegh, kee; versteegh, c. h. m. (1997). the arab languag. columbia univers press. isbn 9780231111522. ... of the qufdn; mani arab loanword in the indigen languag, as in urdu and indonesian, were introduc mainli through the medium of persian.
 bhabani charan rai (1981). "appendix b persian, turkish, arab word gener us in oriya". orissa under the mughal: from akbar to alivardi : a fascin studi of the socio-econom and cultur histori of orissa. orissan studi project, 10. calcutta: punthi pustak. p. 213. oclc 461886299.
 "what ar the offici languag of the unit nation? - ask dag!". ask.un.org. archiv from the origin on 5 februari 2016. retriev 21 decemb 2019.
 "christian 2015: religi divers and person contact" (pdf). gordonconwel.edu. januari 2015. archiv from the origin (pdf) on 25 mai 2017. retriev 29 mai 2015.
 "execut summari". futur of the global muslim popul. pew research center. 27 januari 2011. archiv from the origin on 5 august 2013. retriev 22 decemb 2011.
 "tabl: muslim popul by countri". pew research center's religion & public life project. 27 januari 2011. archiv from the origin on 1 august 2013. retriev 18 mai 2014.
 "un offici languag". un.org. 18 novemb 2014. archiv from the origin on 17 octob 2015. retriev 18 octob 2015.
 "world arab languag dai". unesco. 18 decemb 2014. archiv from the origin on 27 octob 2017. retriev 12 februari 2014.
 al-jallad, ahmad (2015). an outlin of the grammar of the safait inscript. brill. isbn 978-90-04-28982-6. archiv from the origin on 23 juli 2016. retriev 17 juli 2016.
 al-jallad, ahmad. "al-jallad. the earliest stage of arab and it linguist classif (routledg handbook of arab linguist, forthcom)". archiv from the origin on 23 octob 2017. retriev 15 juli 2016.
 al-jallad, ahmad. "al-jallad. 2014. on the genet background of the rbbl bn hfʿm grave inscript at qaryat al-fāw". bsoa.
 al-jallad, ahmad. "al-jallad (draft) remark on the classif of the languag of north arabia in the 2nd edit of the semit languag (ed. j. huehnergard and n. pat-el)".
 "examin the origin of arab ahead of arab languag dai". the nation. 15 decemb 2016. archiv from the origin on 20 april 2021. retriev 20 april 2021.
 "linteau de port". musé du louvr. archiv from the origin on 20 april 2021. retriev 20 april 2021.
 al-jallad, ahmad. "on wāw to rule them all: the origin and fate of wawat in arab and it orthographi".
 nehmé, laila. ""a glimps of the develop of the nabataean script into arab base on old and new epigraph materi", in m.c.a. macdonald (ed), the develop of arab as a written languag (supplement to the proceed of the seminar for arabian studi, 40). oxford: 47-88". supplement to the proceed of the seminar for arabian studi.
 lentin, jérôme (30 mai 2011). "middl arab". encyclopedia of arab languag and linguist. brill refer. archiv from the origin on 15 august 2016. retriev 17 juli 2016.
 al-jallad, ahmad (30 mai 2011). "polygenesi in the arab dialect". encyclopedia of arab languag and linguist. brill refer. archiv from the origin on 15 august 2016. retriev 17 juli 2016.
 versteegh, kee (2014). the arab languag. edinburgh univers press. isbn 978-0-7486-4529-9. archiv from the origin on 4 octob 2018. retriev 16 mai 2017.
 retsö, jan (1989). diathesi in the semit languag: a compar morpholog studi. brill. isbn 978-90-04-08818-4. archiv from the origin on 4 octob 2018. retriev 16 mai 2017.
 ibn khaldūn, 1332-1406, author. (27 april 2015). the muqaddimah : an introduct to histori. isbn 978-0-691-16628-5. oclc 913459792.
 قصة أول خطاب باللغة العربية في الأمم المتحدة ألقاه جمال عبد الناصر. دنيا الوطن (in arab). archiv from the origin on 20 februari 2020. retriev 20 februari 2020.
 لقاء طه حسين مع ليلى رستم ونجوم الأدب. www.msn.com. archiv from the origin on 20 februari 2020. retriev 20 februari 2020.
 okerson, ann (2009). "earli arab print: movabl type & lithographi". yale univers librari. archiv from the origin on 18 februari 2020. retriev 20 februari 2020.
 sawai, moham (30 mai 2011). "languag academi". encyclopedia of arab languag and linguist. archiv from the origin on 27 februari 2021. retriev 20 februari 2020.
 unesco (31 decemb 2019). بناء مجتمعات المعرفة في المنطقة العربية (in arab). unesco publish. isbn 978-92-3-600090-9. archiv from the origin on 5 april 2021. retriev 31 march 2021.
 tilmatin, mohand, "arab and linguist domin: berber and arab in the north of africa", languag empir in compar perspect, berlin, münchen, boston: de gruyter, pp. 1–16, isbn 978-3-11-040836-2, retriev 19 april 2021
 seri-hersch, iri (2 decemb 2020). "arab and islam in the make of the sudanes "postcoloni" state (1946-1964)". cahier d'étude africain (240): 779–804. doi:10.4000/etudesafricain.32202. issn 0008-0055.
 kamusella, tomasz (2017). "the arab languag: a latin of modern?" (pdf). journal of nation, memori & languag polit. 11 (2): 117–145. doi:10.1515/jnmlp-2017-0006. s2cid 158624482. archiv (pdf) from the origin on 12 decemb 2019. retriev 28 june 2019.
 abdulkafi albirini. 2016. modern arab sociolinguist (pp. 34–35).
 tomasz kamusella. 2017. the arab languag: a latin of modern? archiv 29 march 2019 at the wayback machin (pp. 117–145). journal of nation, memori and languag polit. vol. 11, no 2.
 kay (1991:?)
 "arab languag." microsoft encarta onlin encyclopedia 2009.
 trentman, e. and shiri, s., 2020. the mutual intellig of arab dialect. critic multilingu studi, 8(1), pp.104-134.
 jenkin, orvil boyd (18 march 2000), popul analysi of the arab languag, archiv from the origin on 18 march 2009, retriev 12 march 2009
 arab languag and linguist. georgetown univers press. 2012. isbn 9781589018853. jstor j.ctt2tt3zh.
 janet c.e. watson, the phonolog and morpholog of arab archiv 14 april 2016 at the wayback machin, introduct, p. xix. oxford: oxford univers press, 2007. isbn 978-0-19-160775-2
 proceed and debat of the archiv 14 april 2016 at the wayback machin 107th unit state congress congression record, p. 10,462. washington, dc: unit state govern print offic, 2002.
 shalom staub, yemeni in new york citi: the folklor of ethnic archiv 14 april 2016 at the wayback machin, p. 124. philadelphia: balch institut for ethnic studi, 1989. isbn 978-0-944190-05-0
 daniel newman, arab-english themat lexicon archiv 13 april 2016 at the wayback machin, p. 1. london: routledg, 2007. isbn 978-1-134-10392-8
 rebecca l. torstrick and elizabeth faier, cultur and custom of the arab gulf state archiv 14 april 2016 at the wayback machin, p. 41. santa barbara: abc-clio, 2009. isbn 978-0-313-33659-1
 walter j. ong, interfac of the word: studi in the evolut of conscious and cultur archiv 14 april 2016 at the wayback machin, p. 32. ithaca, ny: cornel univers press, 2012. isbn 978-0-8014-6630-4
 clive hole, modern arab: structur, function, and varieti, p. 3. washington, dc: georgetown univers press, 2004. isbn 978-1-58901-022-2
 nizar y. habash,introduct to arab natur languag process, pp. 1–2. san rafael, ca: morgan & claypool, 2010. isbn 978-1-59829-795-9
 bernard bate, tamil oratori and the dravidian aesthet: democrat practic in south india, pp. 14–15. new york: columbia univers press, 2013. isbn 978-0-231-51940-3
 luca c, manfredi s, ed. (2020). arab and contact-induc chang (pdf). berlin: languag scienc press. doi:10.5281/zenodo.3744565. isbn 978-3-96110-252-5. archiv from the origin on 16 januari 2021. retriev 7 januari 2021.
 "teach arab in franc". the economist. archiv from the origin on 25 septemb 2018. retriev 26 septemb 2018.
 "macron govern is contempl offer arab lesson in public school, educ minist sai". newsweek. archiv from the origin on 12 januari 2019. retriev 7 april 2021.
 "top 50 english word – of arab origin". blog.transpar.com. arab languag blog. archiv from the origin on 15 decemb 2018. retriev 14 decemb 2018.
 eb staff. "maltes languag – britannica onlin encyclopedia". britannica.com. archiv from the origin on 5 june 2008. retriev 4 mai 2010.
 gregersen (1977:237)
 see the semin studi by siegmund fraenkel, die aramäischen fremdwörter im arabischen, leiden 1886 (repr. 1962)
 see for instanc wilhelm eiler, "iranisch lehngut im arabischen", acta iv. congresso de estudo árabe et islâmico, coimbra, lisboa, leiden 1971, with earlier refer.
 shrivtiel, shraybom (1998). the question of romanis of the script and the emerg of nation in the middl east. mediterranean languag review. pp. 179–196.
 shrivtiel, p. 188
 shrivtiel, p. 189
 nicholson, reynold. a literari histori of the arab. the syndic of the cambridg univers press.
 allen, roger (2000). an introduct to arab literatur (1. publ. ed.). cambridg [u.a.]: cambridg univ. press. isbn 978-0-521-77657-8.
 cobham, adoni; translat from the arab by catherin (1990). an introduct to arab poetic (1st ed.). austin: univers of texa press. isbn 978-0-292-73859-1.
 "arab – the mother of all languag – al islam onlin". alislam.org. archiv from the origin on 30 april 2010. retriev 4 mai 2010.
 ferguson, charl (1959), "the arab koin", languag, 35 (4): 616–630, doi:10.2307/410601, jstor 410601
 arab, egyptian spoken (18th ed.). ethnologu. 2006. archiv from the origin on 25 februari 2015. retriev 28 januari 2015.
 borg, albert j.; azzopardi-alexand, mari (1997). maltes. routledg. isbn 0-415-02243-6.
 borg and azzopardi-alexand (1997). maltes. routledg. p. xiii. isbn 978-0-415-02243-9. in fact, maltes displai some areal trait typic of maghrebin arab, although over the past 800 year of independ evolut it ha drift apart from tunisian arab
 brincat, 2005. maltes – an unusu formula. archiv from the origin on 8 decemb 2015. retriev 17 februari 2018. origin maltes wa an arab dialect but it wa immedi expos to latinis becaus the norman conquer the island in 1090, while christianis, which wa complet by 1250, cut off the dialect from contact with classic arab. consequ maltes develop on it own, slowli but steadili absorb new word from sicilian and italian accord to the need of the develop commun.
 robert d hoberman (2007). morpholog of asia and africa, alan s. kay (ed.), chapter 13: maltes morpholog. eisenbrown. isbn 978-1-57506-109-2. archiv from the origin on 4 octob 2018. maltes is the chief except: classic or standard arab is irrelev in the maltes linguist commun and there is no diglossia.
 robert d hoberman (2007). morpholog of asia and africa, alan s. kay (ed.), chapter 13: maltes morpholog. eisenbrown. isbn 978-1-57506-109-2. archiv from the origin on 4 octob 2018. yet it is in it morpholog that maltes also show the most elabor and deepli embed influenc from the romanc languag, sicilian and italian, with which it ha long been in intim contact….as a result maltes is uniqu and differ from arab and other semit languag.
 "mutual intellig of spoken maltes, libyan arab and tunisian arab function test: a pilot studi". p. 1. archiv from the origin on 11 octob 2017. retriev 23 septemb 2017. to summaris our find, we might observ that when it come to the most basic everydai languag, as reflect in our data set, speaker of maltes ar abl to understand less than a third of what is be said to them in either tunisian or benghazi libyan arab.
 "mutual intellig of spoken maltes, libyan arab and tunisian arab function test: a pilot studi". p. 1. archiv from the origin on 11 octob 2017. retriev 23 septemb 2017. speaker of tunisian and libyan arab ar abl to understand about 40% of what is said to them in maltes.
 "mutual intellig of spoken maltes, libyan arab and tunisian arab function test: a pilot studi". p. 1. archiv from the origin on 11 octob 2017. retriev 23 septemb 2017. in comparison, speaker of libyan arab and speaker of tunisian arab understand about two-third of what is be said to them.
 isserlin (1986). studi in islam histori and civil, isbn 965-264-014-x
 campbel, lyle; gordon, raymond g. (2008). "review of ethnologu: languag of the world, raymond g. gordon jr". languag. 84 (3): 636–641. issn 0097-8507.
 m�ller-kessler, christa (2003). "arama ?k?, lyk? and iraqi arab ?aku, maku: the mesopotamian particl of exist". journal of the american orient societi. 123 (3): 641–646. doi:10.2307/3217756. issn 0003-0279. replac charact in |last= at posit 2 (help)
 lipinski (1997:124)
 al-jallad, 42
 watson (2002:5, 15–16)
 watson (2002:2)
 watson (2002:16)
 watson (2002:18)
 ferguson, charl (1959), "the arab koin", languag, 35 (4): 630, doi:10.2307/410601, jstor 410601
 e.g., thelwal (2003:52)
 rydin, karin c. (2005). a refer grammar of modern standard arab. new york: cambridg univers press.
 tabbaa, yasser (1991). "the transform of arab write: part i, qur'ānic calligraphi". ar orientali. 21: 119–148. issn 0571-1371. jstor 4629416.
 hanna & grei (1972:2)
 ibn warraq (2002). ibn warraq (ed.). what the koran realli sai : languag, text & commentari. translat by ibn warraq. new york: prometheu. p. 64. isbn 157392945x. archiv from the origin on 11 april 2019.
 osborn, j.r. (2009). "narr of arab script: calligraph design and modern space". design and cultur. 1 (3): 289–306. doi:10.1080/17547075.2009.11643292. s2cid 147422407.
 m. ed., loyola univers-maryland; b. s., child develop. "the import of the arab languag in islam". learn religion. archiv from the origin on 1 februari 2009. retriev 7 januari 2021.
 quesada, thoma c. arab keyboard (atlanta ed.). madisonvil: peter jone. p. 49. archiv from the origin on 27 septemb 2007. retriev 11 octob 2012.
 "review of languag cours". lang1234. retriev 12 septemb 2012.
 kee versteegh, the arab linguist tradit, p. 106. part of landmark in linguist thought seri, vol. 3. new york: routledg, 1997. isbn 978-0-415-15757-5
 suleiman, p. 93 archiv 14 april 2016 at the wayback machin
sourc
as-sabil, archiv from the origin on 25 april 2016, retriev 22 june 2016
bateson, mari catherin (2003), arab languag handbook, georgetown univers press, isbn 978-0-87840-386-8
durand, olivi; langon, angela d.; mion, giuliano (2010), corso di arabo contemporaneo. lingua standard (in italian), milan: hoepli, isbn 978-88-203-4552-5
gregersen, edgar a. (1977), languag in africa, crc press, isbn 978-0-677-04380-7
grigor, georg (2007), l'arab parlé à mardin. monographi d'un parler arab périphériqu, bucharest: editura universitatii din bucuresti, isbn 978-973-737-249-9, archiv from the origin on 27 septemb 2007
hanna, sami a.; grei, naguib (1972), write arab: a linguist approach, from sound to script, brill archiv, isbn 978-90-04-03589-8
haywood; nahmad (1965), a new arab grammar, london: lund humphri, isbn 978-0-85331-585-8
hetzron, robert (1997), the semit languag (illustr ed.), taylor & franci, isbn 978-0-415-05767-7
irwin, robert (2006), for lust of know, london: allen lane
kaplan, robert b.; baldauf, richard b. (2007), languag plan and polici in africa, multilingu matter, isbn 978-1-85359-726-8
kay, alan s. (1991), "the hamzat al-waṣl in contemporari modern standard arab", journal of the american orient societi, 111 (3): 572–574, doi:10.2307/604273, jstor 604273
lane, edward william (1893), arab–english lexicon (2003 reprint ed.), new delhi: asian educ servic, isbn 978-81-206-0107-9, archiv from the origin on 10 decemb 2013
lipinski, edward (1997), semit languag, leuven: peeter
mion, giuliano (2007), la lingua araba (in italian), rome: carocci, isbn 978-88-430-4394-1
mumisa, michael (2003), introduc arab, goodword book, isbn 978-81-7898-211-3
procházka, s. (2006), ""arab"", encyclopedia of languag and linguist (2nd ed.)
steingass, franci joseph (1993), arab–english dictionari, asian educ servic, isbn 978-81-206-0855-9, archiv from the origin on 3 april 2013, retriev 21 septemb 2020
suileman, yasir. arab, self and ident: a studi in conflict and displac. oxford univers press, 2011. isbn 0-19-974701-6, 978-0-19-974701-6.
thelwal, robin (2003). "arab". handbook of the intern phonet associ a guid to the us of the intern phonet alphabet. cambridg: cambridg univers press. isbn 978-0-521-63751-0.
traini, r. (1961), vocabolario di arabo [dictionari of modern written arab] (in italian), rome: i.p.o., harassowitz
vaglieri, laura veccia, grammatica teorico-pratica della lingua araba, rome: i.p.o.
versteegh, kee (1997), the arab languag, edinburgh univers press, isbn 978-90-04-17702-4
watson, janet (2002), the phonolog and morpholog of arab, new york: oxford univers press, isbn 978-0-19-824137-9
wehr, han (1952), arabisch wörterbuch für die schriftsprach der gegenwart: arabisch-deutsch (1985 reprint (english) ed.), harassowitz, isbn 978-3-447-01998-9
wright, john w. (2001), the new york time almanac 2002, routledg, isbn 978-1-57958-348-4
extern link
	standard arab edit of wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
	egyptian arab edit of wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
	moroccan arab edit of wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
	algerian arab test of wikipedia at wikimedia incub
	south levantin arab test of wikipedia at wikimedia incub
	north levantin arab test of wikipedia at wikimedia incub
	tunisian arab test of wikipedia at wikimedia incub
	for a list of word relat to arab, see the arab categori of word in wiktionari, the free dictionari.
	wikivers ha learn resourc about arab
	wikibook ha a book on the topic of: arab
	wikimedia common ha media relat to arab languag.
	wikiquot ha quotat relat to: arab
	wikivoyag ha a phrasebook for arab.
dr. nizar habash's, columbia univers, introduct to arab natur languag process
googl ta3reeb – googl transliter
transliter arab languag pronunci applet
alexi neme (2011), a lexicon of arab verb construct on the basi of semit taxonomi and us finit-state transduc
alexi neme and eric laport (2013), pattern-and-root inflect morpholog: the arab broken plural
alexi neme and eric laport (2015), do comput scientist deepli understand arab morpholog? – هل يفهم المهندسون الحاسوبيّون علم الصرف فهماً عميقاً؟‎, avail also in arab, indonesian, french
jastrow, morri (1905). "arab languag and literatur" . new intern encyclopedia.
arab manuscript, ua 5572 at l. tom perri special collect, brigham young univers onlin arab keyboard
catafago, joseph (1873). an english and arab dictionari. archiv.org (in english and arab) (2nd ed.). london, england: bernard quaritch. p. 1114. archiv from the origin on 19 octob 2018. retriev 18 octob 2018. (bilingu dictionari)
vte
arab languag
vte
arab languag book
vte
varieti of arab
vte
histori of the world's languag
vte
modern semit languag
vte
semit languag
author control edit thi at wikidata	
gnd: 4241223-7ma: 96455323ndl: 00560295sudoc: 027219623
categori: arab languagelanguag attest from the 9th centuri bccentral semit languagesfusion languageslanguag of algerialanguag of bahrainlanguag of cameroonlanguag of chadlanguag of the comoroslanguag of djiboutilanguag of eritrealanguag of gibraltarlanguag of israellanguag of iranlanguag of iraqlanguag of jordanlanguag of kurdistanlanguag of kuwaitlanguag of lebanonlanguag of libyalanguag of malilanguag of mauritanialanguag of moroccolanguag of nigerlanguag of omanlanguag of the state of palestinelanguag of qatarlanguag of saudi arabialanguag of senegallanguag of south sudanlanguag of sicilylanguag of somalialanguag of sudanlanguag of syrialanguag of the unit arab emirateslanguag of tunisialanguag of yemenstress-time languagessubject–verb–object languagesverb–subject–object languag
navig menu
not log in
talk
contribut
creat account
log in
articletalk
readview sourceview historysearch
search wikipedia
main page
content
current event
random articl
about wikipedia
contact us
donat
contribut
help
learn to edit
commun portal
recent chang
upload file
tool
what link here
relat chang
special page
perman link
page inform
cite thi page
wikidata item
print/export
download as pdf
printabl version
in other project
wikimedia common
wikibook
wikiquot
wikivers
wikivoyag

languag
العربية
башҡортса
ελληνικά
فارسی
हिन्दी
مصرى
bahasa melayu
türkçe
中文
221 more
edit link
thi page wa last edit on 22 mai 2021, at 00:54 (utc).
text is avail under the creativ common attribut-sharealik licens; addit term mai appli. by us thi site, you agre to the term of us and privaci polici. wikipedia® is a regist trademark of the wikimedia foundat, inc., a non-profit organ.
privaci policyabout wikipediadisclaimerscontact wikipediamobil viewdevelopersstatisticscooki statementwikimedia foundationpow by mediawiki
taymanit wa the languag and script of the oasi of taymāʾ in northwestern arabia, date to the second half of the 6th centuri bce.
