
page semi-protect
arab
from wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
jump to navigationjump to search
thi articl is about the gener languag (macrolanguag). for specif varieti of arab and other us, see arab (disambigu).
arab
اَلْعَرَبِيَّةُ‎
al-ʿarabiyyah
arab albayancalligraphi.svg
al-ʿarabiyyah in written arab (naskh script)
pronunci	/ˈʕarabiː/, /alʕaraˈbijːa/
nativ to	countri of the arab leagu, minor in neighbor countri and some part of asia, africa, europ
ethnic	arab, arab-berber, afro-arab, among other
nativ speaker	310 million, all varieti (2011–2016)[1]
270 million l2 speaker of standard (modern) arab[1]
languag famili	
afro-asiat
semit
west semit
central semit
north arabian
arab
earli form	
proto-arab
old arab
old hijazi
classic arab
standard form	
modern standard arab
dialect	
western (maghrebi)
northern (egyptian, mesopotamian, levantin)
southern (peninsular gulf, hejazi, najdi and yemeni)
write system	•arab alphabet
•arab braill
•arabizi
sign form	sign arab (differ nation form)
offici statu
offici languag in	
26 state
intern organ
recognis minor
languag in	
list
regul by	
list
languag code
iso 639-1	ar
iso 639-2	ara
iso 639-3	ara – inclus code
individu code:
arq – algerian arab
aao – algerian saharan arab
xaa – andalusian arab
bbz – babalia creol arab
abv – baharna arab
shu – chadian arab
aci – cypriot arab
adf – dhofari arab
avl – eastern egyptian bedawi arab
arz – egyptian arab
afb – gulf arab
ayh – hadrami arab
acw – hijazi arab
ayl – libyan arab
acm – mesopotamian arab
ari – moroccan arab
ar – najdi arab
apc – north levantin arab
ayp – north mesopotamian arab
acx – omani arab
aec – saidi arab
ayn – sanaani arab
ssh – shihhi arab
sqr – siculo arab
ajp – south levantin arab
arb – standard arab
apd – sudanes arab
pga – sudanes creol arab
acq – taizzi-adeni arab
abh – tajiki arab
glottolog	arab1395
linguaspher	12-aac
arab dispers.svg
dispers of nativ arab speaker as the major (dark green) or minor (light green) popul
arab speak world.svg
us of arab as the nation languag (green), as an offici languag (dark blue) and as a region/minor languag (light blue)
thi articl contain ipa phonet symbol. without proper render support, you mai see question mark, box, or other symbol instead of unicod charact. for an introductori guid on ipa symbol, see help:ipa.
arab (اَلْعَرَبِيَّةُ, al-ʿarabiyyah [al ʕaraˈbijːa] (about thi soundlisten) or عَرَبِيّ‎, ʿarabīi [ˈʕarabiː] (about thi soundlisten) or [ʕaraˈbij]) is a semit languag that first emerg in the 1st to 4th centuri ce.[3] it is now the lingua franca of the arab world.[4] it is name after the arab, a term initi us to describ peopl live in the arabian peninsula bound by eastern egypt in the west, mesopotamia in the east, and the anti-lebanon mountain and northern syria in the north, as perceiv by ancient greek geograph[5] the iso assign languag code to thirti varieti of arab, includ it standard form, modern standard arab,[6] also refer to as literari arab, which is modern classic arab. thi distinct exist primarili among western linguist; arab speaker themselv gener do not distinguish between modern standard arab and classic arab, but rather refer to both as al-ʿarabiyyatu l-fuṣḥā (اَلعَرَبِيَّةُ ٱلْفُصْحَىٰ[7] "the eloqu arab") or simpli al-fuṣḥā (اَلْفُصْحَىٰ). modern standard arab is an offici languag of 26 state and 1 disput territori, the third most after english and french.[8]

arab is wide taught in school and univers and is us to vari degre in workplac, govern and the media. arab, in it standard form, is the offici languag of 26 state, as well as the liturg languag of the religion of islam, sinc the quran and hadith were written in arab.

dure the middl ag, arab wa a major vehicl of cultur in europ, especi in scienc, mathemat and philosophi. as a result, mani european languag have also borrow mani word from it. arab influenc, mainli in vocabulari, is seen in european languag—mainli spanish and to a lesser extent portugues, catalan, and sicilian—ow to both the proxim of christian european and muslim arab civil and the long-last arab cultur and languag presenc mainli in southern iberia dure the al-andalu era. the maltes languag is a semit languag develop from a dialect of arab and written in the latin alphabet.[9] the balkan languag, includ greek and bulgarian, have also acquir a signific number of arab word through contact with ottoman turkish.

arab ha influenc mani other languag around the globe throughout it histori. some of the most influenc languag ar persian, turkish, hindustani (hindi and urdu),[10] kashmiri, kurdish, bosnian, kazakh, bengali, malai (indonesian and malaysian), maldivian, pashto, punjabi, albanian, armenian, azerbaijani, sicilian, spanish, greek, bulgarian, tagalog, sindhi, odia[11] and hausa and some languag in part of africa. convers, arab ha borrow word from other languag, includ hebrew, greek, arama, and persian in mediev time and languag such as english and french in modern time.

arab is the liturg languag of 1.8 billion muslim, and arab[12] is on of six offici languag of the unit nation.[13][14][15][16] all varieti of arab combin ar spoken by perhap as mani as 422 million speaker (nativ and non-nativ) in the arab world,[17] make it the fifth most spoken languag in the world. arab is written with the arab alphabet, which is an abjad script and is written from right to left, although the spoken varieti ar sometim written in ascii latin from left to right with no standard orthographi.

